1docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact If you know who you're searching for at BCEE,  visit our staff page . Search in Concordia Directory BCEE Staff View larger map Contact us Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering: 514-848-2424 ext. 3200 Undergraduate program inquiries Graduate program inquiries Location 1515 St. Catherine W. Room  EV 6.139 Mailing address Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West EV-6.139 Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
2docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services Our department is home to state-of-the-art & one-of-a-kind  teaching  &  research  facilities in Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering. Teaching Labs Learn more about our Building Engineering, Civil Engineering & Environmental Engineering Teaching Labs. Explore our labs Research Labs Learn more about our department's Building Engineering, Civil Engineering & Environmental Engineering Research Labs. Learn more About our labs Aside from our  Teaching Labs  &  Research Labs , the department's fabrication shop provides the necessary resources to prepare special test samples or equipment for use in research. Instrumentation and calibration facilities are also provided, and a two-story prototype laboratory is available for full-scale assemblies needed in special research projects. The most recent realization is the Environmental Chamber in the  Building Envelope Performance Laboratory  designed to test new concepts in the performance of the building envelope. Lab Safety IT support (AITS) Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
3docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student Banking 101 Learn about the basics of student bank products and make the right choice November 26, 2014, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM The Financial Aid and Awards Office of Concordia University invites all current and future Concordia students to the  Student Banking 101  workshop. In this free workshop, you will learn about the basics of student bank products and will get tips that can help you choose the right products for you. These tips will help you save money and help foster a positive start to your credit history. How to sign up for Financial Literacy Week workshops Go to the  MyConcordia portal Click on Financial Aid and Awards in the left sidebar Click on Workshops Follow the instructions to reserve your place Where Room GM-230-18, Guy-Metro Building  (1550 De Maisonneuve W.), Sir George William Campus Cost This event is free Speakers Kathy Antonopoulos, Luiza-Elisabeta Tudor Organizer Atosa Tangestanifar Organization Financial Aid and Awards Office Website Financial Aid and Awards Office website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 7855 Category Workshops & seminars Export event Other Dates November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 November 28, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
4docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Get the flu shot Book your appointment today to protect yourself and others from the flu November 26, 2014, 9:00 AM – 3:30 PM The health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year. Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe. Flu vaccine clinics start November 18. Come by  Health Services  or drop by the weekly  Healthy YOU at CU information tables  to discuss your questions and concerns with a nurse or health promotion specialist. Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from  WebMD Check out the  Health Services flu clinic schedule ! Where Room AD-307, Administration Building  (7141 Sherbrooke W.), Loyola Campus Cost Free to those who meet the criteria Organization Health Services Website Health Services website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 5276 Category Other events Export event Other Dates November 18, 2014 November 19, 2014 November 21, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
5docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Our faculty undertake  leading edge research  in various areas of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering. Research centres Solar Buildings Research Network Interested in the design and development of net-zero energy buildings and communities? Read more Concordia Institute for Water, Energy and Sustainable Systems CIWESS trains students to be at the forefront of sustainable development practices. Read more Research labs Building Engineering Labs Civil Engineering Labs Environmental Engineering Labs Researchers Dr. Adel Hanna Professor Dr. Hanna's research area is Geotechnical Engineering. Learn more Dr. Catherine Mulligan Professor Dr. Mulligan is Concordia Research Chair in Geoenvironmental Sustainability (Tier I). Learn more Dr. Andreas K. Athienitis Professor Dr. Athienitis is Concordia Research Chair (Tier 1). His research area is Solar Energy Engineering and Energy Efficiency. Learn more Our Researchers Contact us Research areas Building Engineering Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
6docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs > Building Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Building Engineering What is Building Engineering? Building Engineers are concerned with the planning, design, construction, operation, renovation, and maintenance of buildings, as well as with their impacts on the surrounding environment.  Building Engineering , commonly known in the US as  Architectural Engineering , is an interdisciplinary program that integrates pertinent knowledge from different disciplines: Civil engineering  for building structures and foundation; Mechanical engineering for Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning system ( HVAC ), and for mechanical service systems; Electrical engineering for power distribution, control, and electrical systems; Physics for building science, lighting and acoustics. Chemistry and biology for  indoor air quality ; Architecture  for form, function, building codes and specifications; Economics for  project planning and scheduling . The building engineer explores all phases of the life cycle of a building and develops an appreciation of the building as an advanced technological system. Problems are identified and appropriate solutions found to improve the performance of the building in areas such as: Energy efficiency, passive solar engineering, lighting and acoustics; Indoor air quality; Construction management HVAC and  control systems Advanced building materials, building envelope Earthquake resistance, wind effects on buildings, computer-aided design. Why choose Building Engineering? Construction is a major industry in Canada, an important contributor to the economy amounting to 6% of Canada's GDP. According to Statistics Canada, over 7% of employed Canadians worked in the construction industry in 2010, an increase of 50.8% since 2000, when 806,900 people worked in construction. While there are many universities that offer Building/ Architectural  Engineering programs, Concordia's Building Engineering Program remains unique in Canada. The program is designed to meet the needs of the construction industry by providing engineers familiar with the overall design of built facilities as covered in the following areas. Building Indoor Environment Building Indoor Environment  covers the environmental aspects in the design, analysis and operation of energy-efficient, healthy and comfortable buildings. Fields of specialization include: thermal comfort, air quality, lighting, acoustics, HVAC and control systems. Building Science Building Science  focuses on the analysis and control of the physical phenomena affecting the performance of building materials and building enclosure systems. Construction Management Construction Management  includes construction techniques, construction processes, planning, scheduling; project tracking and control, labor and industrial relations, and legal issues in construction. Energy Efficiency Energy Efficiency  is also an application area which draws from the building science and building environment areas. It includes analysis, design, and control of energy-efficient buildings and HVAC systems,  solar energy  utilization and  intelligent buildings . Building Envelope Building Envelope  is an application area which draws from all areas of building engineering, especially building science and indoor environment. It focuses on the analysis and design of building envelopes, including durability, heat and moisture transfer and interaction with the indoor environment. Building Structure Building Structure  area concerns with the principles of structural mechanics, material Behavior and their applications to the analysis and design of steel, reinforced concrete and timber building structures. Fields of specialization include: wind and seismic effects on buildings. Computer Aided Engineering Computer Aided Engineering  is an exciting area in Engineering. Even though computers have become ubiquitous in the architecture-engineering-construction industry, their present use is mostly limited to drafting, analysis, member sizing, cost estimation, and construction management. Computers have tremendous untapped potentials in the field of Building Engineering. Career opportunities in Building Engineering The building engineer has a wide spectrum of knowledge about building systems and their individual components, and understands the building itself as a large integrated system. The building engineer may work as a consulting engineer, design engineer, project manager, construction manager, cost engineer, facility manager, conservation-utility director, HVAC engineer and operation manager, or a process engineer among other career possibilities. As a graduate of the building engineering program, you will be qualified for positions at companies specializing in the design, analysis, operation, construction, and management of a wide range of residential, commercial, and industrial building projects. Our graduates can be found at numerous companies and organizations in Montreal and elsewhere, including: Public Works Canada Racan Industries Concordia Physical plant Natural Resources Canada (CANMET) GES Technologies INPSEC-SOL Honeywell Keen Engineering Siemens Dessau-Soprin Kolostat Morrison Hershfield Patenaude Trempe Halsall SNC-Lavalin Peter Kiewit Sons Co. Tardif Murray & Associates Hatch & Associates EllisDon Corporation Revay & Associates Explore our programs Explore our programs Student Testimonials Related Links Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
7docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs > Graduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Graduate programs For students interested in work & study terms, our department's MEng programs are also offered in the  Co-op format . Graduate Certificate (Bldg) 16 credits of course work The Graduate Certificate in Building Engineering is designed for practicing engineers who wish to specialize in one or more of the following sub-disciplines within Building Engineering: Building Science Building Envelope Construction Management Energy Efficiency Building Environment Rehabilitation of Urban Infrastructure Facility Management Learn more Graduate Certificate (Environmental) 16 credits of course work The Graduate Certificate in Environmental Engineering is designed for practicing engineers who wish to specialize in one or more of the following subdisciplines in Environmental Engineering: Industrial Waste Management Environmental Auditing Modelling in Environmental Systems Learn more MEng program Designed to provide practicing engineers with an opportunity to strengthen and extend the knowledge they have obtained at the undergraduate level, to develop their design skills, and to enhance their ability to present technical material in written form. MEng (Bldg) 45 credits of course work Students will choose from the following course groups: Building Environment; Building Science; Building Structures; and Construction Management. The program also has an Industrial Experience Option. Learn more MEng (Civil) 45 credits of course work Students will choose from the following course groups: Environmental Engineering and Water Resources; Geotechnical and Transportation Engineering; Structural Engineering; and Construction Management. The program also has an Industrial Experience Option. Learn more MASc program Designed to provide students with an opportunity to strengthen, in some specific area or areas, the knowledge gained at the undergraduate level, and to provide a significant introduction to research. MASc (Bldg) 16 credits of course work plus 29-credits of  research  thesis Applicants to the MASc program should hold a bachelors degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Learn more MASc (Civil) 16 credits of course work plus 29-credits of  research  thesis. BCEE offers the research-oriented Master of Applied Science program (MASc) in Civil Engineering which includes Environmental Engineering as one of its major research areas. Learn more PhD program Leads to the highest degree offered by the Faculty and is designed to provide students an opportunity to obtain the greatest possible expertise in their chosen field through intensive research. PhD in  Building Engineering PhD in  Civil Engineering Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
8docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs > Undergraduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Undergraduate programs Both the BEng (Bldg) and BEng (Civil) programs are accredited by the  Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board  ( CEAB ) and are also offered in the  Co-op format . Building Engineering (BEng) Concordias Building Engineering program is the only one of its kind in Canada. In state-of-the-art labs designed for understanding building science, acoustics and lighting, engineering materials and solar energy, youll get practical experience with the tools and equipment you will use in the field. Learn more Civil Engineering (BEng) Protect water resources. Design buildings, bridges and tunnels. Improve transportation and traffic flow. As a civil engineer, your expertise in urban and environmental planning lets you guide municipalities to create the structures and systems that have a positive impact on everyday community life. Choose to specialize in  Civil Infrastructure ,  Environmental  or  Construction Engineering and Management . Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
9docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs > Civil Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Civil Engineering What is Civil Engineering? Civil Engineering  concerns itself with the design, construction and maintenance of the physical  infrastructure  of a modern society and its environment. Civil engineers plan roads, bridges, and transportation networks for moving people and goods. They are also responsible for the design of  foundations  and superstructures of common structures such as buildings,  bridges ,  dams ,  tunnels ,  wharves , as well as of unusual structures such as rocket installations,  containment buildings  for nuclear reactors, supports for  radio telescopes , and  frameworks for aircraft . In addition, they are concerned with the engineering aspects of  water resources ;  transportation facilities ; planning  metropolitan areas , and conducting and managing their public facilities. In dealing with  environmental problems , civil engineers perform vital functions such as monitoring and controlling air,  water , and  soil quality , assessing the  impact  of technological changes on the environment, and developing innovative  waste management technologies . Their work embodies human civilization and affects society's standard of living. Why Choose Civil Engineering? BCEE Department provides students with a blend of practical and theoretical instructions. The program is geared towards helping students establish themselves as professionals in their field of study. Final year students have the opportunity to deepen their knowledge by taking elective courses in the options: Option A  Civil Infrastructure Option B  Environmental Option C  Construction Engineering & Management (CEM) Career opportunities in Civil Engineering The  construction  industry is a major driving force of our economy. The rejuvenation of our aging infrastructure is a national priority that demands large public funding and the contributions of civil engineers. Civil engineers apply their know-how to the restoration, construction and maintenance of buildings, bridges, dams, transportation network as well as of the environment. They find employment in private, institutional and industrial sectors as well as in all levels of governments; they may hold supervisory or administrative positions, from supervisor of a construction site to city engineer. They may carry titles such as consulting engineer,  structural engineer ,  project engineer , transportation engineer, environmental engineer, geotechnical engineer, water resources engineer, construction manager, or cost engineer. Most work in design, construction, fabrication and inspection, while others in research, development and teaching. Our graduates can be found at numerous companies and organizations in Montreal and elsewhere, including: SNC-Lavalin Ministre des Transports du Quebec Hydro-Qubec Dessau-Soprin INSPEC-SOL Hatch Halsall RWDI Yolles Stantec Acres Environment Canada Infrastructure Canada Public Works and Government Services Canada National Research Council Canada Atomic Energy of Canada Limited Revay & Associates Tardif Murray & Associates Explore our programs Explore our programs Student Testimonials Related Links Building Engineering Environmental Engineering Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
10docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs > Environmental Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Environmental Engineering The application of engineering solutions to environmental problems has opened new and challenging engineering careers that require expertise from various civil engineering fields to deal with the pressing problems posed by the ever-increasing amounts of both municipal and industrial wastes threatening the well-being of today's society. Water body for recreation Our new Environmental Engineering Research Laboratory was officially opened on November 27, 2000 as the result of a CFI New Opportunities Infrastructure grant. Current main areas of research include: Applied environmental microbiology Environmental impact assessment Biosolids management Natural attenuation Soil remediation Waste management Water and wastewater treatment What is Environmental Engineering? Environmental Engineering  is a branch of civil engineering. It is concerned with the environment (the surrounding water, land, and air), and with developing and constructing systems, facilities, and technologies that provide a healthy and clean environment for our population. It is concerned with cleaning up already contaminated water and soils, managing  water resources , environmental auditing, modeling of environmental systems, and managing  hazardous wastes . Toronto wastewater treatment plant As our population increases, and as the effects of  global warming  continue, the technologies and techniques of environmental engineering are becoming more urgent. This is an exciting and important field of the future. Environmental engineering study is available in the following programs or specializations: Graduate Certificate in Environmental Engineering BEng (Civil) Option B MASc (Civil) Specialization PhD (Civil) Specialization Why Choose Environmental Engineering at Concordia At the undergraduate level, environmental engineering is offered as a  Civil Engineering program option  (Option B), where a minimum of 15 elective credits will be taken in this specialty. Field trip for lab measurements in the course CIVI 465: Water Pollution and Control For students who continue their studies in this field, the department now offers the  Graduate Certificate in Environmental Engineering , in which students can specialize in one of the following areas: Industrial Waste Management , Environmental Auditing, and Modeling of Environmental Systems. The Department has recently established a new  Environmental Engineering Laboratory . In addition, Civil Engineering programs leading to  MASc  and  PhD  degrees also provide specialized study and research in Environmental Engineering. Career Opportunities in Environmental Engineering There is a broad range of employment   opportunities in the field of environmental engineering. Employment   could be in a field which directly   contributes to the protection of   the environment (prevention,   reduction, management, and control of   pollution), or contributes to the   conservation of natural resources. Deer Island Digesters with gas cover Research in environmental technologies, education, training, and consultation are possible sectors of employment. Students might find jobs performing environmental audits and impact assessments. Opportunities exist in water and wastewater quality monitoring, modeling and water management and treatment, sewage management, design and construction of industrial chemical processing and hazardous waste treatment facilities, design and construction of landfills, and consulting for hazardous wastes. The environmental engineer could work directly in the environmental industry or for environmental interest groups, for consulting companies in the industrial sector (e.g.., mining, energy, agriculture and chemical), in the public sector (provincial, federal and municipal governments, universities or research centers), or for other non-governmental associations. What will I study? At the undergraduate level, students interested in Environmental Engineering should choose the Option B of the  BEng (Civil) program . Students follow the civil engineering course sequence for two years. In the third and fourth years, courses are chosen from the environmental engineering option. The program consists of the Engineering Core courses, the Civil Engineering Core, and Elective Courses chosen from Option B. In the first year, the basics of engineering such as technical drawing, mechanics of materials, thermodynamics are introduced. In the second year, the basics are continued while topics in civil engineering and environmental engineering such as Hydraulics, Geology and Environmental Engineering are introduced. In the third year, students gain a deeper understanding of civil and environmental engineering with courses such as Soil Mechanics, Hydrology. In the third and forth years, elective courses are chosen from Option B, which is designed for those students interested in environmental engineering. Students will have the opportunity to apply their knowledge to real-life application in the final year Capstone Civil Engineering Design Project. See the  Course Schedule by semester  for the sequence of courses to be taken. Read more about  Options in Civil Engineering programs . Specializations in Environmental Engineering Geo-environmental engineering Hazardous wastes, air and water resources Air quality, monitoring, modeling and air pollution reduction Environmental assessment, modeling and site remediation for soil and groundwater waste management, collection and reduction Water and wastewater quality monitoring, modeling and water management and treatment, sewage management Design and construction of industrial chemical processing and hazardous waste treatment facilities Design and construction of landfills Explore our programs Explore our programs Student Testimonials Related Links Building Engineering Civil Engineering Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
11docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > About the department Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the department The Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering (BCEE) is an academic unit within the  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science  of Concordia University. It was founded in 1997 with the merger of the  Centre for Building Studies  (est. in 1976) and the  Department of Civil Engineering  (est. in 1967). BCEE offers  programs of study  in Building Engineering, also known in the US as Architectural Engineering, and Civil Engineering which includes Environmental Engineering as an option and a major research area. The  CEAB-accredited  undergraduate programs lead to the B.Eng. degree while the graduate programs include the Graduate Certificates, the MEng, MASc and PhD degrees. Concordia University is a large, urban university in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Read a  brief overview of the University  or consult  job opportunities  in our department. EV Building staircase. Click to enlarge How to  find us Undergraduate program enquiries Graduate   program enquiries Join the conversation Concordia Engineering @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Related links Overview of Concordia University Meet our faculty members Meet our staff News & Events Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
12docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > News & events > Notices Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Notices October 3, 2014 University flags at half-mast on October 4 and 5 September 23, 2013 Dr. Andreas Athienitis awarded Senior NSERC Industrial Research Chair September 18, 2013 Honorable mention for best journal article September 18, 2013 Paper received the Stephan G. Revay Award at the 2013-CSCE conference June 1, 2013 Second place in the 2013 CSCE Best Student Paper Competition May 29, 2013 CSCE 2013 Annual Conference May 15, 2013 An innovative water treatment system April 15, 2013 Dr. M. Elektorowicz awarded CSCE's Albert E. Berry Medal April 15, 2013 Winner of the Engineers Without Borders Concordia's Global Engineering Award April 9, 2013 Third place in the Ottawa Eco-Logical Competition January 21, 2013 Retired Professor Emeritus Cedric Marsh July 4, 2012 Faculty Garners Concordia's First CREATE Award May 4, 2012 Three Building Engineering students won awards at the 7th biennial eSim Building Simulation Conference March 1, 2012 Nokken named ACI Fellow December 15, 2011 2011 News Archive Show more news Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter (CSCE:CSC) Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
13docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Student life Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student life Find out what's happening at BCEE and what the department has to offer to students.  Get involved  with your community. Academic integrity Current students Current students Student & professional associations Campus services Financial support Computer labs and accounts Course registration, sequences, descriptions & advising FAQ for graduate students Get involved! List of student groups at Concordia Message boards for BCEE students Undergraduate students Graduate students Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS Alumni Chapter Group Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
14docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Current students Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Current students Open House Key resources Concordia Class Schedule ENCS Class Schedule All ENCS labs schedules Door codes How to avoid plagiarism offence Course sequences Student Academic Services Student requests, readmission forms, transfer requests and more can all be found at SAS. Visit SAS now Undergraduate registration Graduate registration Important Deadlines Academic Writing Resources Graduate Academic Dates Graduate Application Deadlines Convocation Technical Writing & Presentation Guide to punctuation  (Larry Trask, University of Sussex) Basic paragraph construction Rules of thumb for writing research articles  (Tom Hengl & Michael Gould) Scientific presentations References Bartleby's great books online Onelook's dictionaries Fundamental constants Handbook of Mathematical Functions Current students Undergraduate course & registration info Course sequences Graduate students Academic regulations How to Study Guide Problem Solving Skills Graduation checklist Message Boards for BCEE students Undergraduate students Graduate students Useful links MyConcordia Portal Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Undergraduate Calendar Graduate Calendar Research assistant positions Academic integrity Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
15docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > About the department > Job opportunities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Job opportunities BCEE faculty and teaching positions Assistant Professor, tenure-track position: Sustainable Infrastructure for Communities in Cold Climates ENCS faculty and teaching positions Strategic Hire - Sustainable Infrastructure for Communities in Cold Climates Mechanical & Industrial Engineering - Assistant or Associate Professor Canada Research Chair: CIISE - Cyber Security Strategic Hire - Computer Games and Virtual Worlds CIISE - Assistant Professor Assistant Professor, Software Engineering Strategic Hire - Interaction Design, Theory and Practice University staff opportunities FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & COMPUTER SCIENCEdocContentEnd
16docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > About the department > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time Faculty Extended-term Faculty Professors Emeriti Affiliate Faculty Full-time Faculty Hashem Akbari Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3201 S-EV 6409 hashem.akbari@concordia.ca Ciprian Alecsandru Associate Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8769 S-EV 6161 ciprian.alecsandru@concordia.ca Transportation Engineering and Design, Traffic operations and control, Traffic simulation, Intelligent transportation systems, Artificial intelligence applications in transportation Luis Amador Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5783 S-EV 6164 luis.amador@concordia.ca Transportation Engineering and Asset Management, Road Safety and Highway Planning, Land Use and Transport Modeling for Transportation Asset Management, Practicalities on Infrastructure Management Systems: Treatments Effectiveness, Homogeneous Groups, Spatial-Temporal Coordination of Activities and Re-optimization, Andreas K Athienitis Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8791 S-EV 6159 andreask.athienitis@concordia.ca (Director, Concordia Centre for Zero Energy Building Studies (EV 15.101)) Solar Energy Engineering, Energy Efficiency, Renewable energy, energy efficiency. Integrated photovoltaics/solar energy utilization systems, Modeling, optimization and control of building thermal systems, Heating ventilation air-conditioning (HVAC), Numerical simulation of heat transfer, Thermal performance of the building envelope, Ashutosh Bagchi Associate Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering Associate Chair 514-848-2424, ext. 3213 S-EV 6111 ashutosh.bagchi@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Structural dynamics and earthquake Engineering, Rehabilitation and structural health monitoring (SHM) of civil infrastructure, Reinforced concrete structures, Finite and boundary element methods, Computer aided design and engineering / Information technology Anjan Bhowmick Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5950 S-EV 6241 anjan.bhowmick@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Seismic design and analysis of steel and reinforced concrete structures, Bridge Engineering, Seismic rehabilitation of steel structures, Fatigue of steel structures, Connections of steel structures Zhi Chen Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8775 S-EV 6169 zhi.chen@concordia.ca Environmental Engineering, Modeling of pollutants fate and transport in the environment, Risk assessment, air pollution, and environmental application of systems analysis and information technology, Pollution control planning, Management of soil and groundwater contamination, and coastal environmental protection. Maria Elektorowicz Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7805 S-EV 6213 maria.elektorowicz@concordia.ca Environmental Engineering, Bio-physico-chemical interaction phenomena in soil/groundwater/contaminant matrix, Biosolids management, Site assessment & remediation - biological, physical and chemical techniques, Modelling of contaminant transport in water, sediments and biota, Management for Acid Sulfate Soils, Waste disposal facilities - landfill, recycling, and recovery Khaled E. Galal Professor, Undergraduate Program Director, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3196 S-EV 6167 khaled.galal@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Seismic rehabilitation of reinforced concrete and masonry structures, Applications of advanced composite materials in upgrading of structures, Performance-based design of structures, Modeling of building structures and bridges, Earthquake engineering and structural dynamics Hua Ge Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8771 S-EV 6122 hua.ge@concordia.ca Kinh H. Ha Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3193 S-EV 6157 kinhhuy.ha@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Structural systems, Finite element analysis, Structural mechanics, Computer aided design Fariborz Haghighat Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering Concordia Research Chair - Energy and Environment (Tier I) 514-848-2424, ext. 3192 S-EV 6153 fariborz.haghighat@concordia.ca Indoor Air Quality and Ventilation, Building material characterization, Modeling of airflow and contaminant dispersal, Indoor air environmental control strategies, Measurement techniques for airflow and indoor Air Quality, Advanced ventilation technologies (Hybrid ventilation) Adel M. Hanna Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7808 S-EV 6127 am.hanna@concordia.ca Geotechnical Engineering, Soil-structure interaction, Bearing and uplift capacities of pile foundations, Pull-out capacity of plate and helical anchors, Performance of shell type foundations, Performance of subgrade and pavement materials in highways Bruno Lee Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5399 S-EV 15103 bruno.lee@concordia.ca Building Energy Performance Simulation, Integrated Building Design, Energy Efficiency, Automated Design Space Exploration, Stochastic Risk Analysis towards Robust Design, Multi-criteria Decision Making and Multi-objective Optimization for Sustainable Design S. Samuel Li Associate Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3033 S-EV 6171 sam.li@concordia.ca Hydraulics and Water Resources, Sediment transport in gravel-bed rivers and river erosion, Computational methods in river hydraulics and density-stratified flow, Pollutant transport and turbulent mixing in shallow waters, Water-ice interaction, Coastal hydraulic Lan Lin Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3032 S-EV 6245 lan.lin@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Seismic performance of buildings and bridges, Performance-based earthquake engineering, Development of seismic fragility curves for buildings and bridges, Development of improved intensity measures for probabilistic seismic, demand analysis, Seismic risk assessment using HAZUS-MH, Characterization of seismic ground motions Osama Moselhi Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3190 S-EV 6109 osama.moselhi@concordia.ca Construction Engineering and Management, Integrated cost and time control & project risk assessment, Planning, tracking and control of construction operations, Web-based project performance system, Optimization model for site selection and evaluation Catherine Mulligan Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering Concordia Research Chair in Geoenvironmental Sustainability (Tier I) 514-848-2424, ext. 4212 S-EV 2149 catherine.mulligan@concordia.ca Environmental Engineering, Surfactant-enhanced washing and flushing of contaminated soils and sediments, Treatment and management of metal-contaminated soils, sediments and wastes, Bioremediation, Physical, chemical and biological treatment of wastewater, Biological treatment of air. Oscar Pekau Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7809 S-EV 6121 oscar.pekau@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Earthquake resistant design of buildings, Seismic fracture analysis of concrete dams, Progressive collapse of precast panel structures, Controlling seismic damage in asymmetric structures, Computer applications in structural engineering Fuzhan Nasiri Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4172 S-EV 6207 fuzhan.nasiri@concordia.ca Infrastructure Systems Engineering, Decentralized (Localized) Infrastructure Management, Sustainable Energy & Resources Engineering, Renewable Energy Modelling & Optimization, Sustainable Asset Management; Facility & Service Operations Management Michelle Nokken Associate Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7806 S-EV 6124 m.nokken@concordia.ca Concrete Durability, Improvement of Durability Test Methods, Rapid Quality Control Testing, Cemented Mine Backfill Saifur Rahaman Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5058 S-EV 6401 saifur.rahaman@concordia.ca Environmental Engineering, Environmental applications and implications of nanomaterials, Membrane separations, Electrochemical advanced oxidation, Resource recovery from waste, Process modelling for advanced treatment technologies Amruthur S. Ramamurthy Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7807 S-EV 6126 amruthur.ramamurthy@concordia.ca Environmental Engineering, Water quality modeling, Site remediation, Ground water and surface water contamination, Fluids Engineering and Hydraulics, CFD modeling, Flow measurement, Fluids engineering, Hydraulic engineering, Water resources engineering Theodore Stathopoulos Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3186 S-EV 6125 theodore.stathopoulos@concordia.ca Wind Engineering, Wind effects on buildings & building aerodynamics, Wind environment, Dispersion of pollutants in the urban environment, Computational wind engineering, Codification of wind effects Lucia Tirca Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7924 S-EV 6211 lucia.tirca@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Design Buildings to Withstand Seismic Forces, Design Steel Structures with Different Dissipation Devices, Seismic Retrofit and Rehabilitation of Existing Steel Structures, Structural Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering Liangzhu (Leon) Wang Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5766 S-EV 6166 leon.wang@concordia.ca Building Environment, Forecasting/Hybrid building simulations using weather forecasting models, Building airflow and thermal management, High-rise building fire protection and smoke management, Modeling and sub-scale experiments for building fire smoke management, Integrating Fire Dynamics Simulator with multizone network model CONTAM, Real-time building simulations, Mohammed Zaheeruddin Professor, Chair, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5940 S-EV 6163 m.zaheeruddin@concordia.ca HVAC and Control Systems, Decentralized and Multivariable controls, Optimization of HVAC processes, Experimental Methods in HVAC Controls, Computer-Aided Design of HVAC Systems, Diagnostics of HVAC Systems Tarek Zayed Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8779 S-EV 6107 tarek.zayed@concordia.ca Construction Engineering and Management, Sustainable pavement marking management systems, Sustainable water systems, Sustainable sewer systems, Sustainable tunnels and metro stations Zhenhua Zhu Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering zhenhua.zhu@concordia.ca Construction Engineering and Management, Building Information Modeling with Data Sensing and Analysis, Transmission Pipelines Inspection and Condition Assessment, Project Constructability and Productivity Analysis Radu Zmeureanu Professor, ing, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4211 S-EV 2143 radu.zmeureanu@concordia.ca Energy Efficiency, Design and analysis of energy-efficient buildings, Sustainable development concept applied to buildings, Second law analysis of HVAC systems, Optimization of life cycle performance of buildings and HVAC systems, Computer modelling of energy performance of buildings and HVAC systems, Computer modelling of refrigeration systems for ice rinks, Net zero energy houses, Attila Michael Zsaki Associate Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3198 S-EV 6151 am.zsaki@concordia.ca Rock mechanics. Computational geomechanics. Continuum and discontinuum mechanics. Scientific computing. Geometric modeling. Extended-term Faculty Jassim Hassan Limited-term Faculty Jian Li Hao Professors Emeriti Sabah T. Alkass Bala Ashtakala Dorel Feldman Richard Guy Zenon Albert Zielinski Affiliate Faculty Ali Baghloul Suzelle Barrington Kenneth Lee Laleh Yerushalmi Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
17docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > About the department > Staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Staff Admin & support staff Dr. M. Zaheeruddin Chair Ms. Tanya Proulx Assistant to the Chair Ms. Olga Soares Department Administrator Dr. Fariborz Haghighat Graduate Program Director Ms. Jenny Drapeau Graduate Programs Advisor Dr. Luis Amodar Undergraduate Curriculum Director Dr. Zhenhua Zhu Co-op Program Director Ms. Min Ning Engineer in Residence Ms. Elli Aghdami Program Assistant & Coop Secretary Ms. Debbie Walker Program Assistant Ms. Linda Swinden Office Assistant Mr. Sylvain Blanger Systems Analyst Mr. Franois Carrire Systems Analyst Technicians Vacant Project Design Supervisor Mr. Tiberiu Aldea Laboratory Coordinator Mr. Luc Demers Technician Mr. Mark Elie Technician (Structures Laboratory) Mr. Jaime Yeargans Technician Ms. Hong Guan Technician Mr. Lang Vo Technician Mr. Joseph Hrib Technician Mr. Roberto Avila-Perez Technician Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
18docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Dr. Andreas Athienitis awarded Senior NSERC Industrial Research Chair Posted on September 23, 2013 | Source:  Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Andreas Athienitis from the Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering, has been named the inaugural chairholder of the Senior NSERC Industrial Research Chair in Optimized Operation and Energy Efficiency: toward High Performance Buildings at Concordia. The new chair was made possible thanks to more than $2 million in funding from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC), Hydro-Qubec, Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) and Rgulvar. The goal of Athienitis' research is to make buildings cleaner, greener and smarter. Find out more. Related Topics awards engineering Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
19docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Honorable mention for best journal article Posted on September 18, 2013 | Source:  Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Dr.  C. J. Willis 's  paper  won honorable mention for the  Stephan G. Revay Award  for best journal article in the Canadian Journal of Civil Engineering in the area of construction engineering and management. He was also awarded the first ever Global Engineering Award for excellence in teaching. Related Topics awards engineering Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
20docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn University flags at half-mast on October 4 and 5 Flags will be lowered to mark the passing of Professor Paul Fazio Posted on October 3, 2014 Paul Fazio, Professor of Building Engineering in the Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering, passed away on September 28. A Funeral Mass will be celebrated at 11:00 a.m. on Saturday, October 4, 2014 at St. Edward the Confessor Mission, 98 Aurora Avenue, Pointe Claire. The universitys flags will be lowered to half-mast on Saturday and Sunday, October 4 and 5 to honour his memory. For more information about Professor Fazio and the dates and times of the visitation and funeral please read  Paul Fazio: a visionary in building engineering . Related Links Concordias flag lowering policy (SG-12) Announcement of Dr. Fazios passing Related Topics facilities faculty in memoriam Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
21docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs BCEE offers  undergraduate  &  graduate programs  in Building Engineering & Civil Engineering, which includes Environmental Engineering as an option, a specialization & a major research area. Contact the  Undergraduate Program Assistant Contact the  Graduate Program Assistant Subjects Building Engineering Building Engineers are concerned with the planning, design, construction, operation, renovation, and maintenance of buildings, as well as with their impacts on the surrounding environment. Learn more Civil Engineering Design, build and maintain the infrastructure of a modern society and its environment. Civil engineers plan roads, bridges, and transportation networks for moving people and goods. Learn more Environmental Engineering Apply engineering solutions to environmental problems with expertise from civil engineering fields and deal with the pressing problems posed by municipal and industrial wastes threatening. Learn more Degrees Co-op  format is available in the BEng programs, while  independent study  & Industrial Option are available at the MEng level. Undergraduate BEng (Bldg) BEng (Civil) Graduate PhD (Bldg) MASc (Bldg) MEng (Bldg) Graduate Certificate (Bldg) PhD (Civil) MASc (Civil) MEng (Civil) Graduate Certificate (Environmental) Other Instead of enrolling in a graduate program, qualified engineering graduates may register for courses as  independent students . The credits earned in these courses may be eligible for transferring to a regular graduate program. Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
22docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Facilities & services > Research Labs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Labs Learn more about our department's  Building Engineering ,  Civil Engineering  &  Environmental Engineering  Research Labs. Lab Safety IT support (AITS) Building Engineering Labs Civil Engineering Labs Environmental Engineering Lab Interdisciplinary Research Labs Building Enclosure  Performance Facility &   Infrastructure Management Systems   Engineering Computer-Aided   Design Facility Rehab & Structural    Health Monitoring Waste Control   & Management Energy Efficiency  in Buildings Pollutant Control    & Dispersal Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
23docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Facilities & services > Teaching Labs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Teaching Labs Learn more about our  Building Engineering ,  Civil Engineering  &  Environmental Engineering  Teaching Labs. Lab Safety IT support (AITS) Building Engineering Labs Acoustics & Lighting Lab Solar Energy / Lighting Lab Room: EV-0S3.412 Learn more Building Science Building Services Lab Room: HB-011.02 Learn more Construction Engineering & Management Lab This lab is housed in the research lab. Learn more Engineering Materials Lab Room: CB-009.02 Learn more Civil Engineering Labs Capstone Project Workshop Room: CB-004 Learn more Surveying Lab Room: CC-123-1 Learn more Hydraulics Computation Lab / Water Resources Lab Affiliated: Water Resources Engineering Research Lab. Learn more Mechanical  Materials Lab Rooms: HB-0927-00, 01 & 03 Learn more Soil Mechanics Lab Room: CB-009 Learn more Environmental Engineering Lab Environmental Engineering Lab Room: HB-003.1 Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
24docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Facilities & services > Lab Safety Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Lab Safety The Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering takes every reasonable precaution to protect the health and safety of faculty, researchers, staff, and students. However, users of university facilities should first be aware of their responsibilities and rights in the workplace, as well as of the safety procedures and guidelines. For this purpose, the Health and Safety Committee has introduced the following measures: Continuing effort to identify and address Environmental, Health and Safety issues specific to Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering Implementation of safety procedures and policies unique to the needs of BCEE Stricter enforcement of the basic laboratory safety practices. Professors and Supervisors are always your first contact for safety concerns. Documents Links BCEE Department Safety Contacts Laboratory Safety Manual Emergency-Procedure Manual Policy on First Aid and Medical Emergency Concordia Environmental Health & Safety Concordia Emergency Procedures Video Campus Security Phone:  514-848-3717 Dial 1 for emergencies Dial 2 for non-emergencies General Inquiries Engineer in residence:   Min Ning Phone:  514-848-2424 Ext 4040 Room:   EV6.185 E-mail Related Links Emergency Procedure Manual Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
25docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Research > Research centres Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research centres Learn about net-zero energy buildings and sustainable development practices. Solar Buildings Research Network Interested in the design and development of net-zero energy buildings and communities? Read more Concordia Institute for Water, Energy and Sustainable Systems CIWESS trains students to be at the forefront of sustainable development practices. Read more Our Researchers Contact us Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
26docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Research > Researchers Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Researchers Dr. C. Alecsandru Transportation Engineering and Design Traffic operations and control Traffic simulation Intelligent transportation systems Artificial intelligence applications in transportation Dr. L. Amador Transportation Engineering and Asset Management Road Safety and Highway Planning Land Use and Transport Modeling for Transportation Asset Management Practicalities on Infrastructure Management Systems: Treatments Effectiveness, Homogeneous Groups Spatial-Temporal Coordination of Activities and Re-optimization Heuristic Optimization Techniques for Multi-objective Across Assets Analytical Tools Pavement Engineering: Use of Sulphate Ammonia on Frost susceptible pavements, Airport Pavements, Low volume roads. Multilevel Bayesian Statistics and Markov Chain Monte Carlo simulation for Reliability-based performance modeling Dr. A. Athienitis Solar Energy Engineering, Energy Efficiency Renewable energy, energy efficiency. Integrated photovoltaics/solar energy utilization systems Modeling, optimization and control of building thermal systems Heating ventilation air-conditioning (HVAC) Numerical simulation of heat transfer Thermal performance of the building envelope Daylighting, computer control of motorized shading devices and dimmable lights Dr. A. Bagchi Structural Engineering Structural dynamics and earthquake Engineering Rehabilitation and structural health monitoring (SHM) of civil infrastructure Reinforced concrete structures Finite and boundary element methods Computer aided design and engineering / Information technology Dr. A. Bhowmick Structural Engineering Seismic design and analysis of steel and reinforced concrete structures Bridge Engineering Seismic rehabilitation of steel structures Fatigue of steel structures Connections of steel structures Dr. Z. Chen Environmental Engineering Modeling of pollutants fate and transport in the environment Risk assessment, air pollution, and environmental application of systems analysis and information technology Pollution control planning Management of soil and groundwater contamination, and coastal environmental protection. Dr. M. Elektorowicz Environmental Engineering Bio-physico-chemical interaction phenomena in soil/groundwater/contaminant matrix Biosolids management Site assessment & remediation - biological, physical and chemical techniques Modelling of contaminant transport in water, sediments and biota Management for Acid Sulfate Soils Waste disposal facilities - landfill, recycling, and recovery Dr. D. Feldman Building Materials Polymers (plastics, adhesives, sealants etc) Composites based on synthetic fibres Polymers and organic compounds for energy conservation Dr. K. Galal Structural Engineering Seismic rehabilitation of reinforced concrete and masonry structures Applications of advanced composite materials in upgrading of structures Performance-based design of structures Modeling of building structures and bridges Earthquake engineering and structural dynamics Dr. K. Ha Structural Engineering Structural systems Finite element analysis Structural mechanics Computer aided design Dr. F. Haghighat Indoor Air Quality and Ventilation Building material characterization Modeling of airflow and contaminant dispersal Indoor air environmental control strategies Measurement techniques for airflow and indoor Air Quality Advanced ventilation technologies (Hybrid ventilation) Dr. A. Hanna Geotechnical Engineering Soil-structure interaction Bearing and uplift capacities of pile foundations Pull-out capacity of plate and helical anchors Performance of shell type foundations Performance of subgrade and pavement materials in highways Dr. S. Li Hydraulics and Water Resources Sediment transport in gravel-bed rivers and river erosion Computational methods in river hydraulics and density-stratified flow Pollutant transport and turbulent mixing in shallow waters Water-ice interaction Coastal hydraulics Dr. L. Lin Structural Engineering Seismic performance of buildings and bridges Performance-based earthquake engineering Development of seismic fragility curves for buildings and bridges Development of improved intensity measures for probabilistic seismic demand analysis Seismic risk assessment using HAZUS-MH Characterization of seismic ground motions Dr. O. Moselhi Construction Engineering and Management Integrated cost and time control & project risk assessment Planning, tracking and control of construction operations Web-based project performance system Optimization model for site selection and evaluation Dr. C. Mulligan Environmental Engineering Surfactant-enhanced washing and flushing of contaminated soils and sediments Treatment and management of metal-contaminated soils, sediments and wastes Bioremediation Physical, chemical and biological treatment of wastewater Biological treatment of air. Dr. M. Nokken Building Materials Development of on-site techniques to assess adequate curing and durability of concrete Durability health monitoring Repair and rehabilitation of civil infrastructure Optimization of supplementary materials for sustainability and durability Permeability and Pore Structure Development Cemented mine backfill Dr. O. Pekau Structural Engineering Earthquake resistant design of buildings Seismic fracture analysis of concrete dams Progressive collapse of precast panel structures Controlling seismic damage in asymmetric structures Computer applications in structural engineering Dr. S. Rahaman Environmental Engineering Environmental applications and implications of nanomaterials Membrane separations Electrochemical advanced oxidation Resource recovery from waste Process modelling for advanced treatment technologies Dr. A. Ramamurthy Environmental Engineering Water quality modeling Site remediation Ground water and surface water contamination Fluids Engineering and Hydraulics CFD modeling Flow measurement Fluids engineering Hydraulic engineering Water resources engineering Dr. T. Stathopoulos Wind Engineering Wind effects on buildings & building aerodynamics Wind environment Dispersion of pollutants in the urban environment Computational wind engineering Codification of wind effects Dr. L. Tirca Structural Engineering Design Buildings to Withstand Seismic Forces Design Steel Structures with Different Dissipation Devices Seismic Retrofit and Rehabilitation of Existing Steel Structures Structural Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering Dr. L. Wang Building Environment Forecasting/Hybrid building simulations using weather forecasting models Building airflow and thermal management High-rise building fire protection and smoke management Modeling and sub-scale experiments for building fire smoke management Integrating Fire Dynamics Simulator with multizone network model CONTAM Real-time building simulations Computational fluid dynamics applied to building designs Whole-building annual energy analysis Dr. M. Zaheeruddin HVAC and Control Systems Decentralized and Multivariable controls Optimization of HVAC processes Experimental Methods in HVAC Controls Computer-Aided Design of HVAC Systems Diagnostics of HVAC Systems Dr. T. Zayed Construction Engineering and Management Sustainable pavement marking management systems Sustainable water systems Sustainable sewer systems Sustainable tunnels and metro stations Dr. Z. Zhu Construction Engineering and Management Building Information Modeling with Data Sensing and Analysis Transmission Pipelines Inspection and Condition Assessment Project Constructability and Productivity Analysis Dr. R. Zmeureanu Energy Efficiency Design and analysis of energy-efficient buildings. Sustainable development concept applied to buildings Second law analysis of HVAC systems Optimization of life cycle performance of buildings and HVAC systems Computer modelling of energy performance of buildings and HVAC systems Computer modelling of refrigeration systems for ice rinks Net zero energy houses Analysis and validation of building energy analysis programs. Impact of building design and control strategies on thermal comfort Dr. A. Zsaki Geotechnical Engineering Numerical modeling of the drying and cracking of geomaterials in 2D and 3D. Rock fracture using 2D and 3D discrete elements. Parallel computation of stresses around underground excavations. Large-scale geometry and mesh optimization for underground excavations. Numerical modeling of impact and stress propagation through geomaterials. Automatic mesh generation for application in numerical stress analysis. Research centres Solar Buildings Research Network Concordia Institute for Water, Energy and Sustainable Systems Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
27docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News More latest news Paul Fazio: a visionary in building engineering October 1, 2014 Four exceptional professors honoured with Presidents Excellence in Teaching Awards( June 4, 2014 Concordia and Polytechnique Montral join forces to simulate an earthquake May 13, 2014 Faculty Accolades, April 2014 April 8, 2014 Improved pavement markings can save lives March 19, 2014 Faculty Accolades, March 2014 March 14, 2014 ENCS Notices November 24, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 21, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 26, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing October 31, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak November 26, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 21, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry More notices Events More events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Student Banking 101 Faculty Accolades More | RSS BCEE Notices October 3, 2014 University flags at half-mast on October 4 and 5 September 23, 2013 Dr. Andreas Athienitis awarded Senior NSERC Industrial Research Chair September 18, 2013 Honorable mention for best journal article Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS Alumni Chapter Group Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
28docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Student life > Scholarships & awards Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Scholarships & awards Teaching Assistantships Tutor, Lab Demonstrator and Marker assignments are provided by the Department, and awarded to qualified applicants in July/August (for fall and winter semester courses), December (for the remaining winter semester courses), and March/April (for summer courses). The basic requirements are technical knowledge and good communication skills as demonstrated by past experience and academic records. TAs are required to pass the COPTTA (Concordia Oral Proficiency Test for Teaching Assistants). The available positions for the Department of BCEE are advertised in ENCS  TA web portal . Applicants are required to provide the necessary documentation by the stipulated deadlines. Excellent 3rd or 4th year undergraduate students with CGPA of at least 3.7 are encouraged to apply. For graduate applicants, priority is given to, respectively, Ph.D., M.A.Sc., and then M.Eng students. For tutor positions, preference is given to students with better verbal communication skills. Students interested in applying for a TA position should subscribe to either the  BCEEng-group  (for undergraduate students) or  BCEGrad-group  (for graduate students) in order to get the latest information by email. All TA positions are in accordance to the  PSAC-TRAC Collective Agreement . TA's must abide by the conditions stipulated in the Agreement, and must complete and sign the union membership form found at the end of the TRAC when they come to sign the tutor/lab demonstrator/marker contract. Undergraduate  Students Graduate  Students International  Students Financial Aid and Awards Award Database Faculty scholarships NSERC Summer Undergraduate Student Research Award . Usually announced in November. Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate Award Magil Construction Ltd. Scholarships Financial Aid and Awards Guidelines for Preparing Fellowship Applications Retired Faculty & Staff Awards  (September) Concordia Fellowships Award Database Harriet and Abe Gold Entrance Bursaries Carolyn and Richard Renaud Graduate Teaching Assistantships Power Corporation of Canada Graduate Fellowships France and Andr Desmarais Graduate Fellowship Armand C. Archambault Graduate Fellowship Campaign for Concordia Awards Hydro Qubec Awards M.A.Sc. and/or Ph.D. Students Financial support provided by the thesis supervisors. Avtar Pall Award : To be announced in August. Awards in Transportation Studies : To be announced in August. SGS Doctoral Teaching Assistantships Canadian Students and Permanent Residents NSERC Postgraduate Scholarships Competitions : Announced in September. Deadline in October. Quebec Postgraduate Scholarships Competitions:  Fonds de recherche du Qubec  Nature et technologies  (FQRNT): Deadlines in October. Message Boards Register for  BCEGrad-Yahoo Group  for announcements of scholarships, awards competition, teaching assistantships as well as of examinations, thesis defences and job-postings. International Tuition Fee Remission Award : Applied within the Admission Application Form or around November. Partial Tuition Scholarship : To be announced in August. PBEEE - Quebec Merit Fellowships for Foreign Students Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate Award The Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate award was established in 2005 through the generosity of Dr. Paul Fazio, Professor of Building Engineering at the Envelope Performance Laboratory, Centre for Building Studies (CBS), Department of Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering. Dr. Fazio founded the CBS in the late 1970s, which he headed until 1997. Over this period he established the Building Engineering programs at the Bachelor, Masters, and Doctoral levels. For Dr. Fazio's contributions to building engineering research and education, he was named Fellow of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers (FCSCE), the American Society of Civil Engineers (FASCE), and the Engineering Institute of Canada (EIC). The non-renewable Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate Award is intended to recognize and encourage an outstanding Undergraduate student pursuing full-time studies in the field of building engineering at Concordia University. Candidates must have a minimum GPA of 3.40 with 60 credits completed, or in the process of being completed, and must demonstrate good communication and leadership skills in the promotion of building engineering. A statement of purpose must be provided with the candidate's application, highlighting why they chose building engineering, their activities promoting building engineering, and how they plan to foster this discipline in their studies and future career. Details: Application required: Yes Open to Canadian citizens and Permanent residents: Yes Open to international students: No Open to part time students: No Department/Concentration: Building Engineering This award is part of the  Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program . Candidates are selected each year by the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee. Information on applications and annual deadlines can be obtained from the  Financial Aid and Awards Office . Magil Construction Ltd. Scholarships A number of in-course scholarships are available through the generous support of Magil Construction Ltd. These scholarships are available to all full-time students pursuing a major in Building or Civil Engineering, and who have completed between thirty-five (35) and seventy (70) credits in the Building or Civil Engineering program. Details: Application required: No Open to Canadian citizens and Permanent residents: Yes Open to international students: No Open to part time students: No Faculty: Engineering and Computer Science Department/Concentration: Building Engineering, Civil Engineering This award is part of the  Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program . No application is required; candidates are recommended by the Department of Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee each year. Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter (CSCE:CSC) Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
29docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Student life > Student & Professional Associations Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student & Professional Associations Alumni Network - ENCS As a graduate of the Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science, you are a valued member of a network of over 15,000 alumni throughout the world. Staying connected to our alma mater brings many rewards, not least of which is the networking opportunity at our many events. You'd be surprised at the pace of positive developments at Concordia University, and your alumni chapter will keep you abreast of all the latest news.  Learn more Student Associations The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter  (CSCE:CSC) Women In Engineering (WIE) Concordia University Engineering and Computer Science Association  (ECA) Montreal-Quebec ITE Student Chapter Concordia Graduate Student Association  (GSA) Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association  (ECSGA) Concordia Student Union Professional Associations Canadian Society for Civil Engineering  (CSCE) Association for the Advancement of Cost Engineering  (AACE) American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers  (ASHRAE) Ordre des ingnieurs du Quebec  (OIQ) The Canadian Council of Professional Engineers  (CCPE) Canadian Institute of Transportation Engineers  (CITE) Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter (CSCE:CSC) Message Boards for BCEE students Undergraduate students Graduate students Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
30docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact If you know who you're searching for,  visit our staff page . Search the complete Concordia directory View larger map Contact us Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Dean's office 514-848-2424 ext. 3109 514-848-4509 Student Academic Services 514-848-2424 ext. 3055 Location Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science 1515 St. Catherine W.,  EV002.139 Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 Mailing address Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Concordia University 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
31docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research As the proud home of several Canada Research Chairs, Concordia University Research Chairs, and Research Centres, our Faculty is recognized nationally and internationally for the high and innovative quality of its individual and team research. These research strengths are integral to our goal of providing leading-edge graduate education and training across our PhD and Masters programs. Research expertise Research centres Research chairs Laboratories Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
32docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Academics Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Academics From robotics to airplanes, buildings to industrial processes, energy and telecommunications to artificial intelligence, our programs emphasize engineering with a social conscience and a global perspective. Talk to a recruiter Apply now What you can study here Undergraduate & graduate degree programs Departments Co-op & Industrial Experience programs Libraries Visiting and exchange Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
33docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > About the Faculty Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the Faculty The Faculty of ENCS offers a curriculum and environment that challenges students and researchers to trigger social change through technological innovation. Contact us See our faculty news Learn more about the faculty > Accreditations Dean's office Job opportunities Faculty administration Fast facts 28 Research Chairs 5 Canada Research Chairs 172 Professors 6 Departments Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
34docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Student life Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student life Join a student group with like-minded individuals, or get advice from alumni. Simply go beyond the classroom to get the most out of your student experience. Get more out of campus life Plan your career Electrical and Computer Engineering Labs EDML class Engineering and Visual Arts Complex Space Concordia at MDA Student associations There's an engineering or computer science student group out there for you. Learn about what they do and how to get involved. You never know  a chance encounter could introduce you to your future business partner. Explore engineering and computer science student groups Success stories Yiran Feng BEng 07 Claudio Vissa BEng 76, MEng 79 Charmaine Christie-Primo BEng 12 Alex Potapov BEng 12 Join the Conversation Facebook Twitter Flickr Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
35docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services The faculty's facilities and services offer the spaces and resources that play a key role in academic life, from computer labs and project rooms to accounts and technical support. Services List of computer labs Capstone project rooms IT support (AITS) Room bookings To book a classroom or conference room for meetings, please send an email to  bookings@encs.concordia.ca . Lab schedules Card access & key requests ENCS lab access codes Health & safety Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
36docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering is concerned primarily with energy and information and their conversion/transmission in the most efficient and reliable manner. This vast field of endeavor includes many specialties and Electrical Engineers may be involved in one or more of these throughout their careers. A partial list includes: electronics, integrated circuit design, very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuit design, layout and testing, controls, robotics, system simulation, telecommunications, signal processing, computer hardware design, software design, power devices, antennas, wave guides, lasers, and optoelectronics. Explore our degree programs Computer Engineering Computer Engineering is the driving force of the information revolution and its transformation of society. Over the course of their careers, computer engineers will be called upon to meet a number of challenges, most of which cannot be imagined today. A partial list of current specialties includes: computer architecture, digital electronics, digital circuits, very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuit design, layout and testing, digital circuit testing and reliability, software design, software engineering, digital communication and computer networks. Explore our degree programs Bachelor programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Master's programs Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Doctoral program Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) On the job experience Co-operative education (Co-op) Co-operative education bridges university life and the working world. This model of experiential learning, offered through the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and the Institute for Co-operative Education, is proven to give students a competitive edge. Learn more about Co-op programs Aerospace training Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI) Students have the opportunity to join the Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI) Learn more about CIADI Technological areas The nature of electrical and computer engineering has changed significantly over the course of the careers of most engineers in the profession. Today, this discipline encompasses a remarkably diverse & fertile set of technological areas. Analog and digital electronics Computer architecture Computer-aided design and manufacturing of VLSI/ULSI Intelligent robotic systems Computer-based control systems More... Telecommunications and computer networking Wireless communication systems Signal and information processing and multimedia systems Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) Electromagnetic and electromechanical systems Data storage systems Embedded systems Distributed computing Mobile computing Real-time software Digital signal processing Optical data processing Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
37docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact Important contacts Title Name Office Phone E-mail Chair William E. Lynch S-EV5.163 3142 blynch@ece.concordia.ca Associate Chair Anjali Agarwal S-EV5.157 3090 aagarwal@ece.concordia.ca Department Administrator Tatyana Bobrova S-EV5.143 4493 tatyana@ece.concordia.ca Assistant to the Chair Kimberly Robin Adams S-EV5.165 3104 kim@ece.concordia.ca Graduate Program Director Abdel R. Sebak S-EV15.179 4082 abdo@ece.concordia.ca Coordinator, Graduate Programs (Ph.D.) Sheryl Tablan S-EV5.166 4154 sheryl.tablan@concordia.ca Coordinator, Graduate Programs (M.A.Sc. & M.Eng.) Diane Moffat S-EV5.168 3103 diane@ece.concordia.ca Coordinator, Comprehensive Examinations M. Omair Ahmad S-EV5.107 3075 omair@ece.concordia.ca Coordinator, Ph.D. Proposal and Seminar M. Reza Soleymani S-EV5.125 4103 msoleyma@ece.concordia.ca Undergraduate Program Director Glenn Cowan S-EV5.167 4108 gcowan@ece.concordia.ca Undergraduate Program Assistant Connie Cianciarelli S-EV5.144 3102 conniec@ece.concordia.ca Undergraduate Curriculum Director Abdelwahab Hamou-Lhadj S-EV5.213 7949 abdelw@ece.concordia.ca Co-op Director Mustafa K. Mehmet Ali S-EV5.145 8896 mustafa@ece.concordia.ca Coordinator, Capstone Projects Chunyan Wang S-EV5.121 3120 chunyan@ece.concordia.ca Engineer in Residence Dmitry Rozhdestvenskiy S-H851.02 3106 dmitry@ece.concordia.ca TA coordinator Tyler Trezise S-H851.01 3157 Tyler@encs.concordia.ca Find us Contact us Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering 514-848-2424 ext. 3100 Find an ECE staff member Find an ECE faculty member Location 1515 St. Catherine St. W. Room  EV-05.139 Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 Mailing address Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West, EV05.139 Montral, Qubec, Canada, H3G 1M8 Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
38docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services Integral to all stages of our students learning, our state-of-the-art labs contain industry-level hardware and software. Teaching labs From Nanotechnology to Optoelectronics, our undergraduate laboratories have been substantially upgraded, modernized and expanded. Learn more Computer facilities Besides the teaching labs available Faculty wide, a number of specialized laboratories are available to address the particular needs of Electrical and Computer Engineering programs. Learn more Utilities & tools From IT help to advising to career resources, we're here to help with a wide range of services. Learn more Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
39docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition November 26, 2014, 10:00 AM – 3:00 PM English description is found below. Le Service Environnement, Sant et Scurit (ESS), en collaboration avec Fisher Scientific, vous convie  un forum en Sant & Scurit. Plusieurs fournisseurs de produits et services prsenteront leurs plus rcents quipements de scurit et rpondront  toutes questions touchant les meilleures pratiques de travail scuritaires dans les laboratoires, les studios et les ateliers. Trois confrences en franais seront offertes par des experts en la matire: Protection des Mains (11 h), Travail en Espaces Clos & Travail en Hauteur (13 h) et Protection Respiratoire (14 h). Cette exposition est gratuite et offerte  tous les membres de la communaut universitaire. Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S), in collaboration with Fisher Scientific, is hosting a Health & Safety Exhibition. Several suppliers will display their latest safety equipment and answer any questions concerning best safe work practices in laboratories, studios, and workshops. Experts will offer conferences  in French , namely on Hand Protection (11 a.m.), Confined Spaces and Fall Protection (1 p.m) and Respiratory Protection (2 p.m.). This exposition is free and open to all members of the university community. Where Room Atrium, Engineering and Visual Arts Complex  (1515 St. Catherine W.), Sir George William Campus Cost This event is free Organizer Daniel Pag Organization Environmental Health and Safety Website Environmental Health and Safety website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 4408 Category Workshops & seminars Export event CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
40docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Get the flu shot Book your appointment today to protect yourself and others from the flu November 26, 2014, 9:00 AM – 3:30 PM The health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year. Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe. Flu vaccine clinics start November 18. Come by  Health Services  or drop by the weekly  Healthy YOU at CU information tables  to discuss your questions and concerns with a nurse or health promotion specialist. Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from  WebMD Check out the  Health Services flu clinic schedule ! Where Room AD-307, Administration Building  (7141 Sherbrooke W.), Loyola Campus Cost Free to those who meet the criteria Organization Health Services Website Health Services website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 5276 Category Other events Export event Other Dates November 18, 2014 November 19, 2014 November 21, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
41docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Our department explores diverse research areas and our faculty members devote themselves to several professional areas of expertise. Research areas Researchers Professional activities Our faculty members have been heavily involved in a variety of professional activities including organizing national and international conferences, serving on editorial boards of journals, scholarship selection committees and the IEEE Montreal Section, reviewing journal papers and grant applications. Recent publications Browse a selection of recent publications from our department. Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
42docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs > Computer Engineering (BEng) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Computer Engineering (BEng) Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) Why study computer engineering? Without computer hardware and software, there would be no smart phones, DVD players and digital recorders and critical systems in airplane cockpits and modern cars, or computerized medical devices.  As a computer engineer, your knowledge of computer architecture, digital electronics, circuits and digital communication will lead to innovations or bring about another information revolution. Choose to specialize in   Avionics and Embedded Systems or create your own path based on electives that suit your interests.  Our state-of-the-art labs designed for programming in assembly language, digital systems and high-performance computing will give you experience with the tools you will use in the field. Through labs, lectures and projects, youll also: Study mathematics and engineering science Learn programming methodology to design data structures and algorithms Learn to resolve issues of system interfaces and integration Design embedded computing and communication systems for high-performance applications, such as a small, unmanned aircraft Our program is accredited by  Engineers Canada  and youll graduate eligible to become a registered professional engineer. Program details Program options & degree requirements A Bachelor of Engineering degree takes a minimum of four years (120 credits) of full-time study,  depending on your academic background . Courses in the program are in three main areas: Engineering fundamentals (includes courses on engineering economics, health and safety and professional practice); Computer engineering fundamentals (includes courses on programming methodology, signals and systems, data structures and organization and more) Technical electives in computer engineering, as outlined below. Options Students may choose from two elective options: Avionics and Embedded Systems Option Credits chosen from the Computer Engineering electives list Learn more about these options and see full degree requirements . Admission requirements Applicants from Qubec institutions : Cegep Students including Three-Year Technical DEC: CHEM-101 or 202-NYA; MATH-103 or 201-NYA  and  203 or 201-NYB  and  105 or 201-NYC PHYS-101 or 203-NYA  and  201 or 203-NYB Applicants from institutions outside Qubec : Calculus I and II, Linear Algebra, Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism, General Chemistry I Particular attention is paid to grades in mathematics, sciences and courses applicable to the intended program of study. Applicants who do not meet the minimum requirements will be reviewed holistically. *Notes: Students will be required to take and complete all prerequisite program requirements during their first year of study. Any missing prerequisites will be added onto the program at Concordia. Applicants from a three-year technical DEC may be eligible for transfer credits based on course equivalencies. Minimum of 65% for exemptions for Math and Physics. Students with grades of less than 65% in prerequisite courses will be asked to repeat those courses in addition to the program. Minimum Cut-off Averages (Minimum Cut-Off Averages: Should be used as indicators. Data  may change  depending on the quality of the application pool ) Cegep: Overall CRC 24.00 Canadian/U.S. High Schools & International Secondary Schools: 80% or B- equivalent External Transfers:   Minimum 2.5 GPA  (Transfer credits may be considered on a course-by-course basis or by challenge exams.) International Bacc. (IB): A minimum total of 27 points and completion of mathematics and sciences at the Higher Level Bacc. Franais: Overall 11/20  Completion of Srie S (Sciences) Make sure you also meet  Concordia's general minimum admission requirements . Application deadlines We consider complete applications  year round . We give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines, but we do consider  late applications  if places  are still available . You've sent your application from: Fall term deadline Winter term deadline Inside Canada March 1 ( Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check  program availability . November 1 ( Not all programs are available for this term. Please check  program availability . Outside Canada  (International) February 1 September 1 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice. Learn more about the  application assessment period and academic timetable . Course curriculum Core courses Engineering core Computer Engineering core Electives Avionics and Embedded Systems Option Core See full curriculum details in the Undergraduate Calendar Sample classes Computer Architecture and Design Microprocessor Systems Data Structures and Algorithms Digital Systems Design See all classes & read course descriptions Course sequences Regular September entry Regular January entry Co-op - September entry Avionics and Embedded Systems - September entry Avionics and Embedded Systems - January entry Avionics and Embedded Systems Co-op - September entry First year for Mature Entry and Extended Credit Co-op program The Engineering Co-op program gives you the chance to complete  paid work terms  that last 12 to 16 weeks. As a Co-op student, you will play a large role in testing software packages designed and implemented by engineers. You may also: Design, build and test computing systems Design and implement software systems Develop and maintain databases Read more about the Computer Engineering Co-op program Sample projects Develop a video game system that runs on a programmable chip (FPGA) Program an autonomous personal-service robot Design an embedded computing and communication system to  control multiple small, unmanned aircraft flying in formation Learn more about final-year Capstone projects After your degree Computer engineering alumni have established careers in a range of computing fields, including aerospace avionics, real-time embedded systems, communication systems, software systems and computer architecture and hardware. Some have been hired by: Bombardier CAE Inc. The Canadian Space Agency CGI Ajilon Consulting Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) How to apply Key resources ECE course descriptions ECE course sequences Class schedules Tuition fee calculator Financial aid & awards Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
43docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs > Electrical Engineering (BEng) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Electrical Engineering (BEng) Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) Why study electrical engineering? Control energy with a flip of a switch. Design next-generation microchips or flight control systems. Electrical engineers build electrical and electronic devices and systems that we depend on every day  whether they are very small (like the microchips in our cell phones) or very large (like the power grids or charging stations for electric cars). Choose to specialize in Electronics/VLSI, Telecommunications, Power and Renewable Energy orAvionics and Control or create your own path based on electives that suit your interests. Our state-of-the-art labs for digital electronics, electric power systems circuits and digital communications will give you experience with the tools youll use in the field. Through labs, lectures and projects, youll also: Study mathematics and engineering science Design circuits and electronics systems Analyze signals and design systems to control a robot, extract information and transmit Work in a Co-op program  and get real world experience in the microelectronics, telecommunications and power industries Our program is accredited by  Engineers Canada  and youll graduate eligible to become a registered professional engineer. Program details Program options & degree requirements A Bachelor of Engineering degree takes a minimum of four years (120 credits) of full-time study,  depending on your academic background . Courses in the program are in three main areas: Engineering fundamentals (includes courses on engineering economics, health and safety and professional practice); Electrical engineering fundamentals (includes courses on programming methodology, electronics, telecommunications and more) Technical electives in electrical engineering, as outlined below. Options Students may choose to take one of five elective options: Electronics/VLSI Option Telecommunications Option Power and Renewable Energy Option Avionics and Control Option Credits chosen from the Electrical Engineering electives list. Learn more about these options and see full degree requirements. Admission requirements Applicants from Qubec institutions : Cegep Students including Three-Year Technical DEC : CHEM-101 or 202-NYA; MATH-103 or 201-NYA  and  203 or 201-NYB  and  105 or 201-NYC PHYS-101 or 203-NYA  and  201 or 203-NYB Applicants from institutions outside Qubec : Calculus I and II, Linear Algebra, Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism, General Chemistry I Particular attention is paid to grades in mathematics, sciences and courses applicable to the intended program of study. Applicants who do not meet the minimum requirements will be reviewed holistically. *Notes : Students will be required to take and complete all prerequisite program requirements during their first year of study. Any missing prerequisites will be added onto the program at Concordia. Applicants from a three-year technical DEC may be eligible for transfer credits based on course equivalencies. Minimum of 65% for exemptions for Math and Physics. Students with grades of less than 65% in prerequisite courses will be asked to repeat those courses in addition to the program. Minimum Cut-off Averages (Minimum Cut-Off Averages: Should be used as indicators. Data  may change  depending on the quality of the application pool ) Cegep: Overall CRC 24.00 Canadian/U.S. High Schools & International Secondary Schools: 80% or B- equivalent External Transfers:   Minimum 2.5 GPA  (Transfer credits may be considered on a course-by-course basis or by challenge exams.) International Bacc. (IB): A minimum total of 27 points and completion of mathematics and sciences at the Higher Level Bacc. Franais: Overall 11/20  Completion of Srie S (Sciences) Make sure you also meet Concordia's general minimum admission requirements. Application deadlines We consider complete applications  year round . We give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines, but we do consider  late applications  if places  are still available . You've sent your application from: Fall term deadline Winter term deadline Inside Canada March 1 ( Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check  program availability . November 1 ( Not all programs are available for this term. Please check  program availability . Outside Canada  (International) February 1 September 1 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice. Learn more about the  application assessment period and academic timetable . Course curriculum Core course groups Engineering core Electrical Engineering core Elective course options Electronics/VLSI Option Telecommunications Option Power and Renewable Energy Option Avionics and Control Option Credits chosen from the Electrical Engineering electives list. Learn more about course lists & curriculum in the Undergraduate Calendar . Sample classes Techniques in Electromagnetic Compatibility Wireless Communication Renewable Energy Systems Real-time Computer Control Systems See all classes & read course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar . Course sequences See the course sequence for each option by semester of entry into the program . Co-op program The Engineering Co-op program gives you the chance to complete  paid work terms  that last 12 to 16 weeks.  As a Co-op student, you will work for engineering firms where you may: Design and code embedded systems Develop, test and integrate telecom solutions Design and validate a video cards programmable circuits Read more about the Electrical Engineering Co-op program Sample projects Build an FM wireless receiver Design a solar home electric vehicle charger Develop a wind energy conversion system Learn more about final-year Capstone projects After your degree Electrical engineering alumni have established careers in a range of fields, including aerospace, avionics and robotics, telecommunications, image and video processing, digital security, and power electronics and systems. Some have been hired by: Bombardier CAE Inc. Ericsson Hydro-Quebec Miranda Technologies Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) How to apply Key resources ECE course descriptions ECE course sequences Class schedules Tuition fee calculator Financial aid & awards Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
44docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs > Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Doctorate (PhD) Why pursue a doctorate in electrical and computer engineering? The Doctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy program leads to the highest degree offered by the Faculty and is designed to provide students an opportunity to obtain the greatest possible expertise in their chosen field through intensive research. Advancement of analytical and/or experimental knowledge through a combination of specialized courses and a research thesis under the supervision of an experienced researcher forms the main component of the doctoral program. Where possible, research of interest to industry is encouraged. The objective of the PhD program is to educate highly qualified researchers required for the expansion of fundamental knowledge and technological innovation through research and development, as well as the needs of institutions of higher learning. See faculty research interests Program details Degree requirements Requirements for the Degree Credits.  A fully-qualified candidate entering the doctoral program with a masters degree is required to complete a minimum of 90 credits. A candidate admitted beyond the bachelors level is required to complete a minimum of 106 credits. Candidates admitted with a masters degree in a cognate discipline, or if they need additional knowledge in an area pertinent to their research, will, in general, be required to complete more than the minimum number of credits. Students may not credit any undergraduate equivalent course towards the requirements of a 90-credit or 106-credit PhD program without the permission of their supervisor and of the Graduate Program Director. Residence.  For candidates admitted with a masters degree, the minimum period of residence is two years of full-time study or the equivalent in part-time study. Part-time students may be required by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, upon the recommendation of the supervisory committee, to carry out a portion of their research on a full-time basis. Where a candidate has been admitted with a bachelors degree, the minimum period of residence is 36 months of full-time study after completion of the bachelors degree. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer credit for courses taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into their program. A course submitted for transfer credit must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Courses.  Students admitted on the basis of a masters degree will normally be required to complete a minimum of 12 credits in course work. A student admitted on the basis of a bachelors degree will normally be required to complete a minimum of 28 credits in course work. Students must also successfully complete the PhD seminar ENCS 8011 (2 credits). Each students program must be approved by a supervisory committee consisting of three members of faculty, including the students research supervisor. This supervisory committee will also arrange for the students comprehensive examination, the presentation of the doctoral research proposal, and thesis evaluation. Comprehensive Examination.  Students must take a comprehensive examination, ENCS 8501, which may be both written and oral. Normally the comprehensive examination is taken when course work has been completed and within 12 (24) months after the first registration as a full-time (part-time) student in a PhD program. Students will be assessed on the basis of written and oral examinations of fundamentals related to their field of research. The comprehensive examination will normally be administered by a committee (the Comprehensive Examination Committee) consisting of the supervisory committee, at least one member external to the candidates program and other members appointed at the discretion of the supervisory committee. Students who fail this examination are permitted to take it a second time in the following term. Students failing a second time are withdrawn from the program. Students should consult the program regarding specific examination procedures and requirements. Doctoral Research Proposal.  Upon successful completion of the comprehensive examination, students must pass the doctoral research proposal ENCS 8511 (6 credits), within 18 (36) months after the first registration as a full-time (part-time) student in a PhD program, before they are admitted to candidacy for the PhD degree. Students will be assessed on the basis of written and oral presentations that must include: (i) a critical review of previous work relevant to the subject of the thesis, and (ii) a detailed research plan of action and expected milestones. Students are required to defend their doctoral research proposal before a committee that will normally be comprised of the same members as the Comprehensive Examination Committee. Students must demonstrate the viability of their project and their capacity to undertake doctoral thesis research. The proposal may be accepted, returned for modifications, or rejected. The rejection of a proposal will result in the students withdrawal from the program. A student whose proposal is accepted will be admitted to candidacy for the PhD. Thesis.  Students are required to plan and carry out a suitable research, development, or design project, which leads to an advance in knowledge. The student must submit a thesis based upon this work and defend it in an oral examination. For purposes of registration, this work will be designated ENGR 8911 or COMP 8901: Doctoral Research and Thesis (70 credits). Theses will be examined by a committee consisting of the students supervisory committee, an external examiner, and other examiners as approved by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee and the Dean of Graduate Studies. Cross-Registration.  A student in the program wishing to take courses under the cross-registration scheme must first obtain approval of the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. (See Inter-University Agreement in  Graduate Registration  section). Time Limit.  All work for a doctoral degree must be completed within 18 terms (6 years) of full-time study or 24 terms (8 years) of part-time study from the time of original registration in the program. Admission requirements Admission Requirements.  To be considered for admission on a full-time basis, applicants normally must hold a masters degree or equivalent with high standing in engineering or computer science, or in a cognate discipline. Holders of bachelors degree will, in general, be considered for admission to a masters program only. After completion of a minimum of two terms of full-time study, they may, upon application, be considered by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee for admission to a PhD program. To be considered for admission on a part-time basis, applicants must hold a masters degree with high standing in engineering, computer science or a cognate discipline. Applicants should understand that admission is contingent not only upon a superior academic record, but also on the availability of a research supervisor, of relevant programs of study and research, as well as adequate laboratory and library facilities. Where applicable, an ability to write programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for appropriate courses. Admission to this program also requires the candidate meet  English proficiency requirements . Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum Sample classes Doctoral Seminar in Electrical Engineering Topics in Electrical Engineering Advanced Digital Communications Fault-Tolerant Distributed Systems Curriculum To see curriculum requirements, please visit the section above on  degree requirements . View all courses and descriptions in the Graduate Calendar . Faculty research interests ECE produces a high level of research activity that benefits from more than 1.5 million dollars in annual funding. Faculty members are involved in eleven areas of research: Systems, control and robotics Circuits and systems; communications Computer communications and protocols Signal processing High performance architecture Software engineering; VLSI systems Microelectronics Microwave and optoelectronics Antennas and electromagnetic compatibility Power electronics and adjustable speed drives Learn more about department research . Financial support Graduate funding is available in various forms. Teaching Assistant (TA) assignments are awarded to qualified graduate students (PhD, MASc, MEng). The basic requirements are technical knowledge and good communication skills as demonstrated by past experience and academic record. Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) How to apply Key resources ECE course descriptions Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Program contacts Program Director Abdel R. Sebak Program Coordinator Sheryl Tablan Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
45docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs > Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Master of Applied Science (MASc) Why pursue a Master's in electrical and computer engineering? This program of Master of in Applied Science is designed to provide students with an opportunity to strengthen, in some specific area or areas, the knowledge gained at the undergraduate level, and to provide a significant introduction to research. It will appeal primarily to the student interested in full-time study. The Master of Applied Science (MASc) program is intended for students who are interested in pursuing advanced studies and research at the postgraduate level, including a thesis. Students who wish to have the option of continuing on to a PhD should enroll in the MASc program. Practising engineers who wish to follow a course-based program should  apply to the MEng instead . See faculty research interests Program details Program options & degree requirements Options Depending on individual department requirements, students may choose to do one or more projects as part of their program.  Read more about projects below . Requirements for the Degree Credits.  A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete successfully a minimum of 45 credits. For specific program requirements, refer to the relevant departmental entry in the following pages. Each individual program of study must be approved by the students department and the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. Transfer Credits . Student may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than eight credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credits must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Effective 2013/1 summer terms, transfers between all ENCS Masters programs will be considered option changes. All course grades ( A+ ,  A ,  A- ,  B+ ,  B ,  B- ,  C ,  F , and  Fail/Absent  ( F/ABS ) and any of their notations, e.g.,  REPT ,  REPL ,  /IP ,  /INC , etc.) for approved courses from the original program are transferred to the new option and included in the GPA. Courses with  DISC ,  MED ,  PEND , and  REJ  are not transferred. Cross-Registration . A student in the program wishing to take courses under the cross-registration scheme must first obtain approval of the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. (See Inter-University Agreement in  Graduate Registration  section) Thesis . Students must complete a 29-credit thesis as part of their degree requirements. The thesis must represent the results of the students independent work after admission to the program. The proposed topic for the thesis, together with a brief statement outlining the proposed method of treatment, and the arrangement made for faculty supervision, must be approved by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. For purposes of registration, this work will be designated as ENGR 8901. The thesis will be evaluated by the students supervisor(s), and at least two examiners appointed by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, one of whom shall be external to the students department. Time Limit . All work for a masters/magisteriate degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (4 years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 term (5 years). Admission requirements Admission Requirements.  Applicants to the MASc program should hold a bachelors degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Consideration will also be given to candidates with a degree in a cognate area with high standing; such students may be required to enrol in an extended program. In particular, applicants with a bachelors degree in architecture will be considered for the MASc in Building Engineering. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for a course prescribed by the Graduate Program Director. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements. Admission to this program also requires the candidate meet  English proficiency requirements . Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum Curriculum Students must complete 45 credits as shown below. Courses.  A minimum of 16 credits chosen from the  Engineering Courses  section, approved by the students supervisor and either the Graduate Program Director or the chair of the department. Thesis . 29 credits. Course descriptions View course descriptions Faculty research interests ECE produces a high level of research activity that benefits from more than 1.5 million dollars in annual funding. Faculty members are involved in eleven areas of research: Systems, control and robotics Circuits and systems; communications Computer communications and protocols Signal processing High performance architecture Software engineering; VLSI systems Microelectronics Microwave and optoelectronics Antennas and electromagnetic compatibility Power electronics and adjustable speed drives Learn more about department research . Financial support Graduate funding is available in various forms. Teaching Assistant (TA) assignments are awarded to qualified graduate students (PhD, MASc, MEng). The basic requirements are technical knowledge and good communication skills as demonstrated by past experience and academic record. Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) How to apply Key resources ECE course descriptions Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Program contacts Program Director Abdel R. Sebak Program Coordinator Diane Moffatt Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
46docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs > Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Master of Engineering (MEng) Why pursue a Master's in electrical and computer engineering? This program of Master in Engineering   is designed to provide practicing engineers with an opportunity to strengthen and extend the knowledge they have obtained at the undergraduate level, to develop their design skills, and to enhance their ability to present technical material in written form. This program is a  course-based  master's degree, Students who wish to have the option of continuing on to a Ph.D. should enroll in the  MASc program  instead of the MEng program. Program details Program options & degree requirements Requirements for the Degree Credits . A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete successfully a minimum of 45 credits. For specific program requirements, refer to the relevant departmental entry in the following pages. Each individual program of study must be approved by the students department. Transfer Credits . Student may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than 12 credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credits must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Effective 2013/1 summer terms, transfers between all ENCS Masters programs will be considered option changes. All course grades ( A+ ,  A ,  A- ,  B+ ,  B ,  B- ,  C ,  F , and  Fail/Absent  ( F/ABS ) and any of their notations, e.g.,  REPT ,  REPL ,  /IP ,  /INC , etc.) for approved courses from the original program are transferred to the new option and included in the GPA. Courses with  DISC ,  MED ,  PEND , and  REJ  are not transferred. Other Courses . A limited number of credits are recognized toward the Master of/Magisteriate in Engineering degree for courses taken under the heading Impact of Engineering on Society and for cognate courses taken from the MBA program. For details refer to the relevant departmental entry in the following pages. Cross-Registration . A student in the program wishing to take courses under the cross-registration scheme must first obtain approval of the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. Time Limit . All work for a masters/magisteriate degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (4 years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 term (5 years). Options Depending on individual department requirements, students may choose to do  one or more projects  as part of their program. Admission requirements Admission Requirements . Applicants to the MEng Program must hold a bachelors degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Applicants with a bachelors degree in architecture with high engineering content may also be considered for the MEng program. Such students will be required to enrol in an extended program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for the appropriate course. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements. Admission to this program also requires the candidate meet  English proficiency requirements . Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum Students must complete 45 credits distributed as follows: A minimum of 36 credits consisting of 6000 numbered courses chosen from Topic Areas: E01, E03, E10, E42, E43, E44, E45, E47, E48, F03, and ELEC/COEN courses in E02. These credits should be structured as follows: Two concentrations from Topic Areas: E03, E42, E43, E44, E45, E47, E48, F03 should be selected. In each of these two Topic Areas, at least 12 credits should be taken. The remaining nine (9) credits must be obtained by selecting one of the following: ENCS 6931, a 9-credit industrial training course; OR A 4-credit complementary course from Topic Area E09 together with ENGR 6991, a 5-credit project course. OR A 4-credit complementary course from Topic Area E09, the 1-credit seminar course ELEC 6961, together with one 4-credit course from the Engineering Courses section chosen with the permission of the Department on a case-by-case basis. Topic areas E01 - MATHEMATICAL METHODS ENCS 6021 Engineering Analysis ENCS 6111 Numerical Methods ENCS 6141 Probabalistic Methods in Design ENCS 6161 Probability and Stochastic Processes ENCS 6181 Optimization Techniques (*) ENCS 6191 Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic E03 - SYSTEMS AND CONTROL ELEC 6041 Large-scale Control Systems ELEC 6061 Real-time Computer Control Systems ELEC 6091 Discrete Event Systems ENGR 6071 Switched and Hybrid Control Systems ENGR 6131 Linear Systems (*) ENGR 6141 Nonlinear Systems ENGR 7121 Analysis and Design of Linear Multivariable Systems ENGR 7131 Adaptive Control ENGR 7181 Digital Control of Dynamic Systems MECH 6681 Dynamics and Control of Nonholonomic Systems E10 - ROBOTICS ENGR 6411 Robotic Manipulators I: Mechanics (*) ENGR 7401 Robotic Manipulators II: Control E42 - COMMUNICATIONS ELEC 6111 Detection and Estimation Theory ELEC 6131 Error Detecting and Correcting Codes ELEC 6141 Wireless Communications ELEC 6151 Information Theory and Source Coding ELEC 6171 Modeling and Analysis of Telecommunications Networks ELEC 6181 Real-time and Multimedia Communication over Internet ELEC 6831 Digital Communications ELEC 6841 Advanced Digital Communications ELEC 6851 Introduction to Telecommunications Networks ELEC 6861 Higher Layer Telecommunications Protocols ELEC 6871 Fiber-Optics Communication Systems and Networks ELEC 6881 Fundamentals and Applications of MIMO Communications ELEC 7151 Broadband Communications Networks ENCS 6811 Optical Networking: Architectures and Protocols E43 - MICRO-DEVICES AND FABRICATION PROCESSES ELEC 6221 Solid State Devices 9 (*) ELEC 6231 Design of Integrated Circuit Components (*) ELEC 6241 VLSI Process Technology (*) ELEC 6251 Microtransducer Process Technology ELEC 6261 Optical Devices for High-Speed Communications ELEC 6271 Nanoscience and Nanotechnology: Opto-Electronic Devices ELEC 6281 Principles of Solid State Nanodevices E44 - FIELDS, WAVES AND OPTOELECTRONICS ELEC 6301 Advanced Electromagnetics ELEC 6311 Radiation and Scattering of Waves ELEC 6341 Antennas (*) ELEC 6351 Modern Antenna Theory ELEC 6361 Acoustics (*) ELEC 6371 Design of Wireless RF Systems ELEC 6381 Techniques in Electromagnetic Compatibility ELEC 6391 Microwave Engineering (*) E45 - ELECTRICAL POWER ENGINEERING ELEC 6411 Power Electronics I (*) ELEC 6421 Renewable Energy Systems (*) ELEC 6431 Advanced Electrical Machines and Drives ELEC 6461 Power Electronics II ELEC 6471 Hybrid Electric Vehicle Power System Design and Control (*) ELEC 6481 Computer-aided Analysis of Power Electronic Systems ELEC 6491 Controlled Electric Drives ELEC 7441 Design of Power Electronic Circuits ELEC 7451 Power System Compensation E47 - SIGNAL PROCESSING ELEC 6601 Digital Signal Processing ELEC 6611 Digital Filters ELEC 6621 Digital Waveform Compression ELEC 6631 Digital Video Processing ELEC 6641 Two-dimensional Signal and Image Processing ELEC 6651 Adaptive Signal Processing E48 - COMPUTER ENGINEERING COEN 6211 Biological Computing and Synthetic Biology (*) COEN 6311 Software Engineering COEN 6312 Model-Driven Software Engineering COEN 6321 Applied Genetic and Evolutionary Systems COEN 6331 Neural Networks COEN 6341 Embedded System Modelling COEN 6611 Real-time Systems COEN 6711 Microprocessors and Their Applications COEN 6721 Fault-Tolerant Distributed Systems COEN 6741 Computer Architecture and Design COEN 7311 Protocol Design and Validation COEN 7741 Advanced Computer Architecture E02 - DEVELOPMENTS IN ENGINEERING Note:  Subject matter will vary from term to term and from year to year. Students may re-register for these courses, providing that the course content has changed. Changes in content will be indicated by the letter following the course number, e.g., CIVI 691A, CIVI 691B, etc. ENCS 591 Topics in Engineering and Computer Science ENCS 691 Topics in Engineering and Computer Science I ENGR 691 Topics in Engineering I ENGR 791 Topics in Engineering II BLDG 691 Topics in Building Engineering I BLDG 791 Topics In Building Engineering II CIVI 691 Topics in Civil Engineering I CIVI 791 Topics In Civil Engineering II COEN 691 Topics In Computer Engineering I COEN 791 Topics In Computer Engineering II ELEC 691 Topics in Electrical Engineering I ELEC 791 Topics in Electrical Engineering II INDU 691 Topics in Industrial Engineering INSE 691 Topics in Information Systems Engineering MECH 691 Topics In Mechanical Engineering I MECH 791 Topics in Mechanical Engineering II Course descriptions View course descriptions in the Graduate Calendar Financial support Graduate funding is available in various forms. Teaching Assistant (TA) assignments are awarded to qualified graduate students (PhD, MASc, MEng). The basic requirements are technical knowledge and good communication skills as demonstrated by past experience and academic record. Project ENGR 6971 Project and Report I  (4 credits). The purpose of the project report is to provide students in the MEng program with an opportunity to carry out independent project work and to present it in an acceptable form. The project may consist of the following: A theoretical study of an engineering problem. A design and/or development project conducted at Concordia. A design and/or project conducted as part of the students full-time employment, providing the students employer furnishes written approval for the pursuit and reporting of the project. An ordered and critical exposition of the literature on an appropriate topic in engineering. Before registration for a project course, a student must obtain written consent of a faculty member who will act as advisor for the report. A form for this consent is available in the Office of the Dean of Engineering and Computer Science. A four-credit report is due on the last day of classes of the term (fall, winter, summer) in which it is registered. Students are expected to have a preliminary version of their report approved by their advisor before its final submission. On or before the submission deadline, students must submit three copies of the report to their advisors, who will grade the report. One copy of the report will be returned to the students, one retained by the advisors, and one by the department. The report, including an abstract, must be suitably documented and illustrated, should be at least 5000 words in length, must be typewritten on one side of 21.5 cm by 28 cm white paper of quality, and must be enclosed in binding. Students are referred to  Form and Style: Thesis, Report, Term Papers, fourth edition by Campbell and Ballou, published by Houghton Migglin . ENGR 6981 Project and Report II  (4 credits) ENGR 6991 Project and Report III  (5 credits) With the permission of their Department, students in the MEng Program may register for these project courses if they wish to carry out a more extended project, or if they wish to complete further projects. Each project course requires prior approval by the faculty member who has accepted to supervise the work. Students working on a multi-course project must register for the corresponding project courses in successive terms. For ENGR 6991 and multi-course projects, the report is due on the last day of classes of the last term in which they are registered. In the case of ENGR 6991 and multi-course project, three copies of the report must be submitted to the advisor on or before this deadline, and students are also required to make an oral presentation to the evaluators, and other members of the community. The report will be evaluated by the advisor and at least one other Engineering and Computer Science member of the Faculty. Industrial Experience Option Industrial Experience Option in the Master of Engineering Applicants to the Master of Engineering may apply to the Industrial Experience option in the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. Students should indicate their choice on the application form. The Institute for Co-operative Education will help them with resumes, cover letters and interview techniques. The suggested schedule is as follows: fall and winter terms will be dedicated to course work followed by one term in industry, culminating with two terms in University for the remaining course work. The industrial experience term will be noted on the student transcript/record. Students apply to the Industrial Experience option as early as possible, preferably when they enter the program. It is preferable to be bilingual in French and English if they wish to work in Quebec. Students who lack good language skills and still want to be part of the program should improve their language skills prior to final acceptance. Admission Criteria Students need to be enrolled in the Industrial Experience option at least the semester before going on a work term. They begin applying for jobs the semester prior to the work term. Previous work experience cannot be used toward credit for the ENCS 6931. Students should have good grades (greater than a CGPA of 3.40) for the masters program, be full-time and have good communication skills. A Canadian work permit is required. The Departmental Co-op Program Director will recommend final acceptance to the Industrial Experience option. ENCS 6931 Industrial Stage and Training  (9 credits) Prerequisite:  Completion of at least twenty credits in the program and permission of the Departmental Co-op Program Director. This is an integral component of the Industrial Experience option that is to be completed under the supervision of an experienced engineer/computer scientist in the facilities of a participating company (a Canadian work permit is required). Each student receives an assessment from the Departmental Co-op Program Director in consultation with the industry supervisor and the faculty advisor. Grading is on a pass/fail basis based on a proposal, monthly progress reports, a final report and a presentation. Learn more about the Industrial Experience option . Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) How to apply Key resources ECE course descriptions Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Program contacts Program Director Abdel R. Sebak Program Coordinator Diane Moffatt Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
47docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > About the department Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the department As an innovative and dynamic department in the faculty of Engineering and Computer Science (ENCS), the Department of Electrical and Computer engineering educates students for professional careers through our  quality academic programs , top-notch  faculty , professional  technical staff  and devoted  administration staff . Meet our faculty Meet our staff Job opportunities Related Links Message from the Chair News & Events Important Contacts Office Hours Join the conversation Concordia Engineering @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
48docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Future students Students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > News & events > News Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn ECE news All years 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 All months January February March April May June July August September October November December All categories Arts & culture In the community Research Sports & wellness Student life Teaching University affairs Convocation preview: 5 great grads, in numbers October 15, 2014 Ted Obuchowicz: Learning on the job September 23, 2014 10 District 3 innovators put their skills to the test June 4, 2014 Excellence in Electrical and Computer Engineering May 23, 2014 Faculty Accolades, February 2014 February 5, 2014 Spiri - A robot in sync with music January 17, 2014 Teaching Excellence and Staff Recognition Awards December 2, 2013 Faculty Accolades, October 2013 October 28, 2013 Summer 2013 Accolades August 21, 2013 Convocation 2013 June 19, 2013 ECE Design Project Awards May 31, 2013 March Accolades April 4, 2013 Teaching Excellence and Staff Recognition Awards December 3, 2012 Filtering spam November 20, 2012 Faculty Accolades for November October 31, 2012 Provost's Circle of Distinction June 26, 2012 ECE outreach at Marianopolis April 20, 2012 Visit from Hydro-Qubec March 30, 2012 Space Concordia sees great results at national competition March 5, 2012 Concordia professor selected to head IEEE Canada October 24, 2011 Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
49docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Student resources Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student resources Find course sequences and schedules, extra-curricular and professional opportunities, advising and support in the ECE department and beyond! Course & lab info Get involved Services & support Undergraduate Undergraduate course sequences Undergraduate course descriptions Capstone project information Need help? Contact the  Undergraduate Program Assistant Graduate Graduate registration information Graduate course descriptions Teaching assistant application Need help? Contact the  MEng & MASc Program Assistant  or the  PhD Program Assistant . Academic forms & advising Student requests, readmission forms, transfer requests and more can all be found at SAS. Visit SAS now Labs ECE lab info ECE lab schedules ENCS-wide lab info ENCS lab schedules ENCS door codes Get involved in department activities and get a head start on your career with hands-on experience! ECA student association Professional associations and resources Capstone Projects Teaching assistant application From  financial support  to all your  campus services , Concordia's new student hub for both undergraduate and graduate students hub has everything you need to thrive. Visit the central student hub Concordia student notices November 10, 2014 Notice to invigilators / Avis aux surveillants dexamen November 14, 2014 Shuttle bus GPS to be upgraded 2015 ECE Graduate Student Research Conference The Electrical and Computer Engineering Department is pleased to announce the First Annual ECE-GSR Conference. GSR is a unique opportunity for our graguate students... Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
50docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > About the department > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time faculty Emeritus professors Affiliate faculty Part-time faculty Abdi, Samar Agarwal, Anjali Aghdam, Amir  G. Ahmad, M. Omair Mohamed, Otmane Ait Amer, Maria Aishy Asif, Amir Cowan, Glenn Ghrayeb, Ali Hamou-Lhadj, Abdelwahab Hamouda, Walaa Zad, Shahin Hashtrudi Kabir, M. Zahangir Kahrizi, Mojtaba Kharma, Nawwaf Khendek, Ferhat Khorasani, Kash Kishk, Ahmed Liu, Yan Lopes, Luiz A. C. Lynch, William E. Mehmet Ali, Mustafa  K. Paknys, Robert Pillay, Pragasen Qiu, Dongyu Ramachandran, Venkat Raut, Rabin Rivaz, Hassan Rodrigues, Luis Sebak, Abdel R. Soleymani, M. Reza Shayan, Yousef  R. Skonieczny, Krzysztof Swamy, M.N.S. Tahar, Sofine Trajkovic, Jelena Trueman, Christopher W. Valizadeh, Pouya Wang, Chunyan Zhang, John Xiupu Zhu, Wei-Ping Al-Khalili, Asim Elhakeem, Ahmed K. Hayes, Jeremiah Plotkin, Eugene Schwelb, Otto Abdollahi, Farzaneh Agarwal, Rajeev Azizi, Seyyed Mohsen Benyamin-Seeyar, Anader Koodiani, Sadegh Farzanehi Jahinuzzaman, Shar Landsberger, Leslie M. Le-Ngoc, Tho Meski,  Nader Stateikina, Irina Gohar, Iman Davis, Donald Das, Susil Sinnig, Daniel Talla, Malleswara  Rao Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
51docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > About the department > Staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Administrative staff Name Title Ext. Office Email Adams, Kimberly Assistant to the Chair 3104 S-EV5.165 kim@ece.concordia.ca Bobrova, Tatyana Department Administrator 4493 S-EV5.143 tatyana@ece.concordia.ca Cianciarelli, Connie Undergraduate Program Assistant 3102 S-EV5.144 conniec@ece.concordia.ca Fasciano, Maria Office Assistant 3100 S-EV5.139 mariaf@encs.concordia.ca Moffat, Diane Coordinator, Graduate Programs (M.A.Sc. & M.Eng.) 3103 S-EV5.168 diane@ece.concordia.ca Tablan, Sheryl Graduate Program Coordinator (PhD) 4154 S-EV5.166 sheryl.tablan@concordia.ca Technical staff Name Title Ext. Office Email Chu, Dave Technician (I) 3095 S-H941 dave@ece.concordia.ca Landry, Jeffrey Technician (I) 3115 S-H941 jlandry@ece.concordia.ca Li, Dan Engineering Specialist 3148 S-H851.03 dan.li@concordia.ca Obuchowicz, Tadeusz Engineering Specialist 3069 S-EV5.110 ted@ece.concordia.ca Prasad, Shailesh Engineering Specialist 4106 S-EV16.189 shailesh.prasad@concordia.ca Rozhdestvenskiy, Dmitry Engineer in Residence 3106 S-H851.02 dmitry@ece.concordia.ca Trezise, Tyler Design Project Specialist 3157 S-H851.01 tyler@encs.concordia.ca Woods, Joseph Technician (I) 3096 S-EVS3.625 joe@ece.concordia.ca Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
52docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > About the department > Job opportunities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Job opportunities Openning faculty positions Strategic Hiring Position  Nanotechnology and Microsystems Engineering for Synthetic Biology.  The Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science is seeking excellent tenure-track candidates at the Assistant or Associate Professor ranks in the area of Nanotechnology and Microsystems Engineering for Synthetic Biology.   Details... Faculty Position in Power Electronics and Electric Energy .  Applicants shall hold a Ph.D. in a relevant Engineering discipline and shall possess teaching and research expertise in areas such as, but not limited to: power electronics and electric energy; electric and hybrid electric vehicles; renewable energy; mini and micro grids; electric energy storage; and electric machines and variable speed drives.  Details... Post-doctoral / Researcher Positions Post-doctoral Researcher on modeling of next-generation network processors We are looking for a post-doctoral researcher to work on modeling of next-generation network processors, starting in January 2015. The candidate must be a recent PhD in computer science or computer engineering. Expertise in algorithm design, C++ programming, and excellent communication/writing skills are required. Background in system-level modeling and network protocols is a plus. The project is funded for multiple years. The initial appointment will be for 1 year, with possibility for reappointment based on performance. Salary is commensurate with qualifications. To apply, please send copies of your CV and a recent publication to  samar@ece.concordia.ca . University Staff opportunities FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & COMPUTER SCIENCEdocContentEnd
53docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty Accolades - October Posted on October 1, 2014 | By: Laurence Miall Source:  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Peter Rigby , assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering, was one of four winners of Concordias 2014 University Research Awards. His overarching research interest is in understanding how developers collaborate to produce successful software systems. His research program is driven by a desire to determine empirically the factors that lead to the development of successful software and to adapt, apply, and validate these techniques in different settings. Glenn Cowan,  associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has won the Concordia Emerging Leadership Award. This award recognizes exceptional leadership abilities and achievement. Cowan is a member of the VLSI research group, which conducts work in the fields large scale integrated circuits  i.e. design and implementation of analog-mixed signal circuits, integrated sensors, and VLSI systems for signal processing, communications, robotics and other applications. Lyes Kadem , associate professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, won the Presidents Excellence in Teaching Award. In addition to his teaching duties, Kadem conducts research as the director of the Laboratory of Cardiovascular Fluid Dynamics. The lab researches the cardiovascular system from an engineering aspect, using engineered cardiac simulators. As for his teaching philosophy, Kadem says, I can summarize my thoughts on teaching in one line: a piece of chalk, a blackboard, and to make it simple, like my teachers taught me. Christian Moreau  in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering has been elected as President of the Thermal Spray Society of ASM International [American Society for Metals] for a two-year term. Moreau is a Tier 1 Canada Research Chair whose team develops diagnostics and modeling tools to improve coating materials and to tailor them for optimum performance in industrial applications. His work will improve energy efficiency and can boost economic growth in the aerospace sector. Govind Gopakumar  in the Centre for Engineering in Society has received a grant from the Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute, a well-established institution in international academic exchange supported by the Government of Canada and Government of India. The grant is a Partnership Development Grant for $5,000 and will support a design process to create a manifesto for inclusive buses in Bangalore, India. The Canadian Association of Composite Structures and Materials has created a new student award that bears the name of  Suong Hoa  from the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. The award is called the Professor Suong V. Hoa Student Paper Award and will be presented for the first time in a special session of the Canadian-International Composites Conference to be held in Edmonton, Alberta next summer. The prize is valued at $1,000 for the first-place winne, $500 for the second-place winner, and $250 for the third-place winner. Related Topics General interest Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
54docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Award for Dr. Hamou-Lhadj and his group at IBM Center of Advanced Studies Conference Posted on November 12, 2014 | Source:  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science CASCON 2014 - November 3rd - November 5th, 2014,  Markham, Ontario Dr. Wahab Hamou-Lhadj and his lab have won this year's People's Choice Showcase Award at theIBM Center of Advanced Studies Conference (CASCON). This was for "TotalADS: An integrated anomaly detection platform" developed in his lab. The reseachers include: Wahab Hamou-Lhadj, Concordia University, Canada Wael Khreich, Concordia University, Canada Syed Shariyar Murtaza, Concordia University, Canada Mario Couture, DRDC, Valcartier, QC, Canada This years CASCON technology showcase features more than 50 showcases from IBM, academia [including UVic, UofT, McGill, Waterloo] and industry  partners to demonstrate their latest development of advanced software technologies. See website:  https://www-927.ibm.com/ibm/cas/cascon/techshowcases.jsp CASCON  (Centre for Advanced Studies Conference) is a  Computer Science  conference hosted by  IBM Canada Software Lab. CAS Research  that occurs annually in late-October or early-November in  Markham, Ontario . The conference typically lasts 3 or 4 days.  See more  ... Related Topics technology Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
55docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Dr. Amir Ajorlou nominated for Best Ph.D.Thesis Award in Quebec Posted on June 17, 2014 | By: Tatyana Source:  Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE) Amir Ajorlou , a recently-graduated student supervised by Amir Aghdam in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has been nominated for the Best Ph.D. Thesis Award in the Province of Quebec.  His thesis was called Connectivity Preservation in Distributed Control of Multi-Agent System. Ajorlou is a two-time gold medal winner of the International Mathematical Olympiad, and the author of over 30 papers in the most prestigious journals and conferences in control systems, which to date been cited over 200 times. He obtained his Ph.D. from Concordia University in 2013, and is currently a postdoctoral research fellow at the University of Pennsylvania. Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
56docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering is concerned primarily with energy and information and their conversion/transmission in the most efficient and reliable manner. This vast field of endeavor includes many specialties and Electrical Engineers may be involved in one or more of these throughout their careers. A partial list includes: electronics, integrated circuit design, very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuit design, layout and testing, controls, robotics, system simulation, telecommunications, signal processing, computer hardware design, software design, power devices, antennas, wave guides, lasers, and optoelectronics. Explore our degree programs Computer Engineering Computer Engineering is the driving force of the information revolution and its transformation of society. Over the course of their careers, computer engineers will be called upon to meet a number of challenges, most of which cannot be imagined today. A partial list of current specialties includes: computer architecture, digital electronics, digital circuits, very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuit design, layout and testing, digital circuit testing and reliability, software design, software engineering, digital communication and computer networks. Explore our degree programs Bachelor programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Master's programs Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Doctoral program Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) On the job experience Co-operative education (Co-op) Co-operative education bridges university life and the working world. This model of experiential learning, offered through the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and the Institute for Co-operative Education, is proven to give students a competitive edge. Learn more about Co-op programs Aerospace training Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI) Students have the opportunity to join the Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI) Learn more about CIADI Technological areas The nature of electrical and computer engineering has changed significantly over the course of the careers of most engineers in the profession. Today, this discipline encompasses a remarkably diverse & fertile set of technological areas. Analog and digital electronics Computer architecture Computer-aided design and manufacturing of VLSI/ULSI Intelligent robotic systems Computer-based control systems More... Telecommunications and computer networking Wireless communication systems Signal and information processing and multimedia systems Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) Electromagnetic and electromechanical systems Data storage systems Embedded systems Distributed computing Mobile computing Real-time software Digital signal processing Optical data processing Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
57docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Facilities & services > Utilities & tools Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Utilities & tools Below you'll find a wealth of services to help you in our department. These are the most commonly sought-after services. If you're a current student, you should also check out out our  current students section  to find all the information you need. Help for faculty profile An improved way for full- and part-time faculty members to maintain their concordia.ca web presence. Update or fill out your faculty profile via a new form in the  MyConcordia Portal . Find & update the form You find the Faculty profile form on MyConcordia. Go to  MyConcordia.ca In the left-hand column choose  Alerts & profiles Click on "Faculty Profile" Find your live URL The live URL you should promote on business cards, email signatures and publications is: http://www.concordia.ca/faculty/firstname-lastname.html eg .../faculty/john-doe.html Help for undergraduate students 1. How do I register? See the  web registration guide . 2. A course is capped, what can I do? Contact  Connie Cianciarelli , Undergraduate Program Assistant. Her office is EV005.142, ext 3102. 3. I missed an exam, what can I do? See  exam regulations . 4. Where will my classes be held? Check each of your classes in the  Class Schedule . 5. I need a tutor for a course. Concordia has many  learning support options . You can also visit ECE reception at S-EV5.139. 6. I have an academic grievance. Contact  Dr. Agarwal , the Undergraduate Program Director, S-EV5.235. 7. I want to change my program. Please visit ENCS  Student Academic Services . 8. I want a transcript. Make a  transcript request . You can have it mailed to you, or pick it up at the  Birks Student Service Centre . 9. I want to withdraw from the University. Please visit the  Office of the Registrar . Help for graduate students 1. I need more information about Graduate Studies. For general information about Graduate Studies at Concordia University, program descriptions and application deadlines, please visit the  graduate programs  section of Concordia's website, or contact the  School of Graduate Studies (SGS) . If you would like information about Graduate Programs in Electrical and Computer Engineering, including faculty areas of research, please visit our  programs page . If you are an international student and have questions regarding visas or what to expect when you come to Montreal, the  International Student Office  is an invaluable resource. 2. How do I register for courses? See the  web registration guide . Looking to  apply  to Concordia University?  Learn how to apply . 3. I missed an exam, what can I do? See  exam regulations . 4. Where will my classes be held? Check each of your classes in the  Class Schedule . 5. I have an academic grievance. Please contact  Diane Moffat , the Graduate Program Assistant. Her office is at S-EV 5.168, ext. 3103. 6. I want to change my concentration or program. First, please visit ENCS  Student Academic Services . 7. I want to withdraw from the University. Please visit the  Office of the Registar . About myECE 1. Do I have an account? myECE is re-designed for the web editor and the web master only to manage and update some contents on this site. It won't be available to the staff member or a faculty member (full-time or part time) in ECE any more. 2. What can I do with myECE? Web editor can update the information about: Important Contacts. Office hours Research areas Teaching labs Publications Graduate course. Contact the web master for access . External electrical & computer engineering resources CCPE - Engineers Canada Engineers Canada is the national organization of the 12 provincial and territorial associations and ordre that regulate the practice of engineering in Canada and license the country's more than 160,000 professional engineers. On February 8, 2007, The Canadian Council of Professional Engineers' (CCPE) Board of Directors approved that CCPE take the step to begin carrying on its activities under the business name ENGINEERS CANADA. IEEE Canada IEEE Canada is the Canadian region of the international Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) - the world's largest technical professional society. Founded in 1884 by a handful of practitioners of the new electrical engineering discipline, today the Institute is comprised of more than 320,000 members who conduct and participate in activities in 147 countries. Approximately 14,000 of those members are Canadian. P.Eng. - Professional Engineer Whether working on attaining an engineering degree or you're now ready to start building your career or you're looking to hire a someone with the right education, the right experience and the right attitude-a P.Eng. is the right move. Ordre des Ingenieurs du Quebec In Quebec, the OIQ carefully monitors compliance with rules of this trade and with the professional integrity of members, while also overseeing the development of the engineering profession. This kind of work is all the more critical, as the Order has more than 53,000 members, making it the second largest of the 45 professional orders charged by the Government of Quebec with the duty of protecting the public. L'Association des Ingnieurs-conseils du Qubec L  'AICQ regroupe des firmes d'intrts privs qui offrent principalement des services d'ingnierie auxquels elles peuvent intgrer des services complmentaires. Ses membres proposent  leurs clients des technologies de pointe, ainsi que des produits et des services professionnels, dans un souci constant d'intgrit et d'impartialit. The Engineering Institute of Canada The Engineering Institute of Canada: Since 1887 Canada's Federation of Engineering Socieities "Engineering, for a prosperous, safe and renewable Canada" Canadian Federation of Engineering Students The CFES is a community strengthened and enriched by a nationally diverse engineering student body. To enhance student life, the CFES facilitates communication, the sharing of ideas, and the exchange of information between member schools. To ensure that students grow both personally and professionally, the CFES keeps abreast of the changes taking place in society affecting engineering students and the engineering profession. To promote the innovative and gifted student body, the CFES also actively promotes and showcases outstanding student achievements. Association of Consulting Engineers of Canada Founded in 1925, ACEC is the national association of consulting firms that provide engineering and other technology-based intellectual services to the built and natural environment. Member companies offer professional engineering services world wide to private sector and government clients. ACEC's mission is to promote and safeguard the business and professional interests of the Canadian consulting engineering industry in Canada and abroad. The Iron Ring - The Ritual of the Calling of an Engineer The Iron Ring has been registered and may be worn on the little finger of the working hand by any engineer who has been obligated at an authorized ceremony of the Ritual of the Calling of the Engineer. The ring symbolizes the pride which engineers have in their profession, while simultaneously reminding them of their humility. The ring serves as a reminder to the engineer and others of the engineer's obligation to live by a high standard of professional conduct. It is not a symbol of qualification as an engineer - this is determined by the provincial and territorial licensing bodies. Canada's Engineering Job Board Network Tap into Canada's largest and most dedicated engineering job board for finding exciting career opportunities. With over 10 society partners it brings the best opportunities right to you! Canadian Society for Engineering Management (CSEM) The Canadian Society for Engineering Management (CSEM) concerns itself with the wider role of the engineer in society. On the one hand it aims to represent the interests and the roles of the engineer in a multidisciplinary sense, as a natural leader in the execution of major projects and business initiatives; on the other, it strives to serve the needs of engineers who manage and direct the broadest concepts, policies and activities of an organization, in both the private and public sectors. Other useful links: Canadian Academy of Engineering PEO - Professional Engineers Ontario National Engineering Week Job Futures Submit a story Have a story idea to share? Please fill out the form below with all the relevant information. Submit a story Submit an event Want to let us know about an event at Concordia? Request that your event be added to the Daily events. Submit an event Related links Current ECE students Campus services Office of the Registrar Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
58docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Facilities & services > Teaching labs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Teaching labs COEN 212 and COEN 313: Digital Systems Design I and II Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: COEN 212 = H1029-1 COEN 313 = H913 Courses: COEN 212, COEN 313 Digital System Design I - COEN 212 AND, OR, NOT, BCD-7SEG-DECODERS, MUX, FLIP-FLOPS and more... Are these terms strange to you? If you want to learn the basics of digital logic, the COEN 212 lab will teach you.  This lab consists of a hands-on approach to learning the fundamentals of digital logic design. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . COEN 311: Computer Organization & Software Lab Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H813 Courses: COEN 311 The COEN 311 lab uses the Axiom CMM332 Microcontroller board. In this lab the students learn the basics of programming in assembly language.  The lab consists of 16 individual CMM332 microcontroller boards.  Software development tools include the Windows based AS32 assembler program and the AxIDE software which comes with a single-step debugger and download utilities. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . COEN 315: Digital Electronics Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H-859 Courses: COEN 315 The COEN 315 lab deals with the design and analysis of digital logic circuits at the transistor level.  The lab is equipped with prototyping equipment in the form of breadboards and test and measurement equipment such as oscilloscopes, multimeters, power supplies, and function generators.  Analysis of circuit performance in terms of propagation delays, noise margins, rise and fall times are performed in the lab. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . COEN 317: Microprocessor Systems Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H859 Courses: COEN 317 The microprocessor systems lab has the goal of building a complete microprocessor based system that records voice input and plays it back.  The COEN 317 lab is accessible only at the scheduled lab hours.  It is equipped with 6 stations. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . COEN 445: Communications Networks and Protocols Administrator:  Dan Li Location: H915 Courses: n the lab some network analyzers, i.g. Wireshark are installed to analysis network topologies, communications protocols basics in Local Area Networks (LANs). It can help students understand layered architecture standards (OSI and TCP/IP) and protocols. The network protocol analyzer lets students to see what\'s happening on a network at a microscopic level. It is the de facto (and often de jure) standard across many industries and educational institutions. Contact Dan Li to learn more . COEN 451: VLSI Circuit Design Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H-822 Courses: ELEC273, ELEC275,ELEC370 THE BASIC CIRCUITS & SYSTEMS LAB located in the Hall Building provides the laboratory component of the following core courses : ELEC273 ( Basic Circuit Analysis), ELEC275 (Principles of Elec.Engg.) and Modeling & Analysis of Linear Physical Systems( ELEC370). Communications Lab Administrator:  Jeffrey Landry Location: H801 Courses: ELEC363, ELEC462 THE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS LAB located in H801 in the Hall Building, provides the laboratory component of the courses ELEC363 (Fundamentals of Telecommunication Systems) and ELEC462 (Introduction to Digital Communication). The lab has a capacity of 8 stations with 2 students per station. Students submit individual reports. The labs consist of 5 experiments each , performed using the LabVolt 9400-Series Communication Lab equipment. ELEC 372: Controls Lab Administrator: Dan Li Location: H-832-6 Courses: ELEC 372 THE CONTROL SYSTEMS LAB located in H832-6 in the Hall Building, provides the laboratory component of the course ELEC372 (Fundamentals of Control Systems). ELEC372 is offered in the Fall and Winter terms. The lab has a capacity of 8 stations with 2 students per station. The lab consists of 5 experiments performed using the ECP(Educational Control Products) Model 220 Industrial Emulator servo-trainer which is used in many universities in the USA and Canada. Go  the lab website  for more details. ELEC 364: Signals and Systems II Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H831 Courses: ELEC 442 The ELEC 364 labs introduce the students to the MATLAB programming context. MATLAB is a very porpular and widely used programming language used in a diverse range of scientific and engineering applications.  The objective of these labs are to provide an intrductory level of understanding of MATLAB for eventual use in other courses.  Genreral purpose PCs installed with the MATLAB software are used together with either the Linux or Windows operating systems. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . ELEC 442: Digital Signal Processing Administrator:   Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H-861 (or any standard PC desktop lab) Courses: ELEC 442 This lab consists of sofware simulations performed using MATLAB. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . Electrical Power Engineering and Power Electronics Laboratory Administrator:  Joseph Woods Location: H-943 and H-945 Courses: ELEC 331, ELEC 433, ELEC 440, ELEC 490 Phone: ext. 3096 Electrical power engineering is the discipline that deals with the generation, distribution and transformation of electrical energy.  The power engineer may work with circuits that range from a large, high-voltage system such as that operated by Hydro-Quebec to a small battery-powered converter in a cell phone. Contact Joseph Woods to learn more . Electronics laboratory Administrator:   Shailesh Prasad Location: H-855 Courses: ELEC 311 and ELEC 312 Phone: ext. 4106 This laboratory teaches the students to investigate circuits through simulation and experimentation. For simulation, the students use the student version of Pspice. The primary focus is to understand BJT and MOSFET based circuits. Some of the circuits that are assembled and simulated in ELEC 311 and 312 are, OPAMP, amplifiers, voltage regulators, current mirrors, current source, differential amplifiers, and power amplifier. Contact Shailesh Prasad to learn more . ELEC 441: Filter Design Lab Administrator:  Shailesh Prasad Location: H-855 Courses: ELEC 441 Phone: 4106 This lab is attached to ELEC 441 where the students learn about filter design. It consists of 5 lab sessions of which 3 are experimental and two are simulation. The experimental part uses opamp LM741 and OTA LM 13700. The students test their cuircuits using digital oscilloscope. The simulation part uses Pspice and Hspice. The lab manual for this course can be purchased at the Bookstore located in the LB building. Contact Shailesh Prasad to learn more . ELEC 481: Linear System Lab Administrator:  Dan Li Location: H805-3 Courses: ELEC481 Lab website This teaching lab is designed for ELEC481 "Linear System", which is provided by ECE department. Right now this lab has been equipped with 4 ECP educational control systems: ECP Model 220 - Servo Mechanism System ECP Model 505 - Inverted Pendulum ECP Model 205 - Torsional Mechanism ECP Model 730 - Magnetic Levitation All system components are made to the highest industrial standards. They have been proven to reliably stand up to many years of continual student use while providing high performance control and data processing. Advanced data processing and intuitive interface software let you immediately implement your control design - either ECP provided or your own - and characterize system behavior. Easy-to-follow instructions guide you through set-up, system operations. Sections on theory, experiments, and detailed instructor solutions greatly accelerate student learning. For more detailed information, you can visit  ECP Systems  or the  lab website . Microelectronics laboratory Administrator:   Shailesh Prasad Location: H007 Courses: ELEC 421, 422, 424 Phone: 4106 This is a fabrication facility where the students can learn about fabrication of BJT and MOSFET. More information about the microelectronics laboratory and the equipments used can be found on my homepage.   http://users.encs.concordia.ca/~shailesh/ You can also find here the lab manuals for ELEC 421, 422, and 424. Microwave Engineering Administrator:  Jeffrey Landry Location: H853 Courses: ELEC 453, ELEC 456 The microwave laboratory investigates phenomena and devices used in microwave engineering. Topics include: waveguide properties striplines and microstrips microwave couplers and cavities microwave filter design antenna porperties Network Lab Administrator:   Dan Li Location: H-919 Courses: ELEC 472, ELEC 465 Lab website ECE Networks Laboratory is engaged in teaching and education in the areas of networks management, network security, wireless communication, quality of service, simulation, multimedia and more ... There are some advanced network equipments in the lab, such as six Cisco routers, one Cisco switch, one Myrinet switch, thirteen Windows/Linux workstations and three servers.  See more on the lab website . ELEC 425: Optical Fiber Lab Administrator:  Shailesh Prasad Location: H-863 Courses: ELEC 425 Phone: ext. 4106 This facility is linked to ELEC 425. The students in this lab learn about optical fiber communication. They perform 5 experiments that involves fiber splicing, optical coupling (Unidirectional as well as bidirectional), coupling loss etc. The lab manuals for this course can be found on my homepage. http://users.encs.concordia.ca/~shailesh/ ELEC 483: Real-time Control System Lab Administrator:   Dan Li Location: H-832.02 Courses: ELEC 483 Lab website The 2 Degrees of Freedom (2DOF) helicopter model is fixed to a vertically mounted shaft that is free to rotate to left and right giving it a degree of freedom in Yaw (changing of y, or direction). The vehicle is suspended in a frame on the vertical shaft so that it is free to swing up and down giving it a degree of freedom in Pitch (changing of q, or angle). [1] For more information, you can visit the  Quanser website . Learn more on the lab website . COEN 421: Real-time Embedded System Lab Administrator:  Dan Li Location: H-867 Courses: COEN 421 Lab website Real-time System lab is made up of four sets of Qball system, which consists of real-time develop workstation, real-time target machine - single board computers (SMC) and Qball as a plant. The lab is connected to real-timenetwork, which is supported by real-time management server, data server and QNX remote access servers. More information can be found at  ECE Real-time website . ELEC 321: Semiconductors & Devices Administrator:   Shailesh Prasad Location: H-861 Courses: ELEC 321 Phone: 4106 This lab is a requirement for ELEC 321 where students learn about the electrical and material properties of semiconductors. Three of the 5 lab sessions involve simulation type of experiments. The students learn to use Carine software which gives information about the crystalline properties of semiconductor. The remaining two lab sessions are equipment-based experiments where the students observe the absorption of light by semiconductors. Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
59docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Facilities & services > Computer facilities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Computer facilities Since the formation of Academic Information Technology Services (AITS) by the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, the management of the computer and network facilities is now conducted at the Faculty level. The result is a better managed and more comprehensive set of services available to the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Learn more about AITS computer labs Department resources Besides the teaching labs available Faculty wide,  a number of specialized laboratories  are available to address the particular needs of Electrical and Computer Engineering programs. The core of the network continues to be gigabyte switches (Cisco Catalyst 3750s) with 100 Mbit to the desktop. Solaris servers provide the CMC (VLSI) applications for our teaching programs and the client systems are now dual boot with Linux and windows. The department has a number of dedicated servers and a variety of client systems. These facilities are the primary resources used by faculty members, support staff and students for undergraduate and graduate teaching, research and administrative tasks. The Electrical and Computer Engineering computing facilities include a variety of Solaris/Unix/Linux servers (6) [SunFire 280R (2), E420R, E450, IBM-345(2)]. These servers provide the services specifically required by the department. Additional services for computing, mail, printing, archiving and WEB services are available from the Faculty resources to the Electrical and Computer Engineering user community. The primary suite of programs continues to be: Cadence, MATLAB (with various toolboxes), Signal Processing Workbench (SPW), ObjectGEODE, editors, compilers and a variety of other applications. The client systems dedicated for teaching are located in nine laboratories located on the 8th and 9th floor of the Hall Building. These provide almost 200 seats (56 are Solaris workstations with the remainder Windows/Linux systems) for students to do course assignments, prepare for labs and perform laboratory experiments. The Electrical and Computer Engineering research computer facilities also include a number of central application servers (5) [Enterprise E3500, SunFire 280R (4), SunBlade-1000] and X client systems (14 PC/Windows 2K, 52 X-term/Unix workstations) which can be found in our Research Laboratories: Signal and Video Processing Laboratories, Robotics and Control Group, Electromagnetic Compatibility Laboratory, Antenna and Microwave Laboratory, Hardware Verification Laboratory, Microelectronics Laboratory, Power Electronics Laboratory, Telesoft Laboratory, VLSI Laboratory, Wireless and Satellite Communications Laboratory. Additional resources (52 clients - 39 PC/Windows, Unix/Linux Workstations) are also available for faculty, administration, technical and part-time staff. Related office Academic Information Technology Services (AITS) Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
60docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Facilities & services > Department calendar Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Department calendar The new  ENCS Faculty Calendar  has now replaced the original ECE Calendar. To reserve a room, please email  bookings@ece.concordia.ca  . Select a room below to view bookings for that room: EV005.251  : ECE Meeting room EV005.156  : ECE Meeting room EV005.113  : ECE Meeting room Contact AITS  staff  & faculty resources on Cspace Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
61docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research > Research areas Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research areas Applied Electromagnetics Description: The Applied Electromagnetic Group  pursues excellence in research and education in Electromagnetics including antenna design, computational electromagnetics, electromagnetics compatibility, electromagnetics measurement, indoor radio propagation, Scattering and Diffraction, and radar cross analysis. It engages in collaborative research and educational programs with local universities, industry and national international laboratories. Faculty: Drs. Ahmed A. Kishk, Robert Paknys, Abdel R. Sebak, Christopher W. Trueman Director: Dr. Abdel R. Sebak Artificial Intelligence and Artificial Life Description: Concordia Computational Intelligence Laboratory (CCIL) grew out of the work and research of members of Concordia University's Computer Engineering and Computer Science faculty as well as a number of graduate students and collaborators in a range of other academic disciplines.  The CCIL is situated in the new Engineering and Computer Science building as of 2005.  Though still in its beginnings, CCIL is evolving rapidly as the research areas and teams expand.  Much of the Laboratory's work revolves around Artificial Intelligence and Artificial Life, Pattern Recognition and Image Processing. Concordia's Artificial Life Group is a discussion and  interdisciplinary research group  consisting primarily of faculty members from different departments as well as graduate students, although others are welcome to join us. We meet a couple of times each term to discuss aspects of artificial life, which we consider to include genetic algorithms, evolutionary computation, digital life, DNA computing and similar topics. These meetings have led to research collaborations between our members. Faculty: Dr. Nawwaf Kharma, external members: Drs. Peter Grogono (CSE), Luc Varin (BIO), Yong Zeng (CIISE). Director: Dr. Nawwaf Kharma Communications Description: Members of the group conduct research in different areas of wireless and optical communications. Their research spans a wide spectrum ranging from the physical to application layer and is of both theoretical and experimental nature. The group has very strong ties with the telecommunications industry. Particular areas of research include: Digital Communications, Information Theory, Channel Coding, Source Coding, MIMO systems, CDMA and 4G systems, Coding and signal processing for data transmission and storage, Smart antennas for wireless applications,  Network Architectures and Media Access Protocols for Wireless Communication Networks, Performance Modeling of Wireless and Wired Communication Networks, Multimedia Communication over the Internet, Optical Networks, MPLS-based networks, Multicasting and Quality of Service, satellite communications. Faculty: Drs. Anjali Agarwal, Ahmed Elhakeem, Ali Ghrayeb, Walaa Hamouda, Mustafa Mehmet Ali, Yousef Shayan, Reza Soleymani, Dongyu Qiu, (John) Xiupu Zhang Director: Dr. Yousef R. Shayan Hardware Formal Verification Description: Members of the group conduct research in different areas of hardware verification and testing including: Formal verification of hardware, ASIC/SOC modeling and verification, Specification languages, Process algebra, Assertion based verification, Model checking, Theorem proving, Quantum and reversible computing, Simulation-based verification, Reliability of wireless sensor networks, Design for testability. Faculty: Drs. Samar Abdi, Otmane Ait Mohamed, Sofiene Tahar Director: Dr. Sofiene Tahar Link: http://hvg.ece.concordia.ca Micro/Nano Devices Description: Research activities include Design and fabrication of array of nano-particles and nano wires for applications in photonic, biomedical and sensing devices, Design and fabrication of MEMS devices; Design, microfabrication, characterization, and physical modeling of active microwave devices in III-Nitride semiconductor family; Theory, modeling, analysis, and characterization of novel electronic materials, x-ray imaging detectors, photodetectors, thin-film and non-structured photovoltaic solar cells, and III-V nitride devices. Research Labs: MEMS Laboratory :   Investigations on fundamental issues related to Micro Structures, Optical Devices, Silicon Anisotropic Etching. Nanodevice Laboratory : Design, Fabrication and Characterization of Nanoscale electron devices, Nanophotonics Sensors. Reliable Electron Devices Laboratory : Design, microfabrication, characterization, and physical modeling of active microwave devices. Material and Device Characterization Laboratory :  Characterizations of carrier transport, electrical and optical properties of electronic and optoelectronic materials and devices. Faculty: Drs. Zahangir Kabir, Mojtaba Kahrizi, Pouya Valizadeh, (John) Xiupu Zhang Director: Dr. Mojtaba Kahrizi Microelectronics, CAD and VLSI Description: The VLSI research group is engaged in the research of very large scale integrated circuits. The research activities are in the areas of design and implementation of analog-mixed signal circuits, integrated sensors, and VLSI systems for signal processing, communications, robotics and other applications. Faculty: Drs. Asim Al-Khalili, Glenn Cowan, Shah Jahinuzzaman, Rabin Raut, Chunyan Wang, M.Omair Ahmad Director: Dr. Chunyan Wang Photonics Description: Research activities of  photonics research group  cover:  modeling and characterization of semiconductor materials and electronic devices, optical sensors for communication and health related applications, fiber-optic communication systems, microwave photonics, fiber-optic based sources and quantum dot semiconductors, Investigation of radio over fiber systems, and fiber Raman amplifiers. Faculty: Drs. Zahangir Kabir, Mojtaba Kahrizi, (John) Xiupu Zhang Director: Dr. (John) Xiupu Zhang Link: http://users.encs.concordia.ca/~photon Power Systems and Renewable Energy Description: The  Power Electronics and Energy Research Group  (PEER) was initiated at Concordia University in 1986. The activities of the group are supported by grants from Federal and Provincial Granting Agencies, as well as industry. Research activities of the group include: Power electronic converters applied to distributed generation, particularly photo-voltaics, fuel cells and wind power. Modeling, design and simulation of high power converters for transmission and distribution systems. Application of power electronics with particular emphasis in the monitoring, control and protection of power systems using artificial intelligence techniques. Renewable energy systems including wind, solar fuel cells and biomass. Electric machines & drives for industrial, automotive and alternative energy applications. Electric & hybrid vehicles. Biomass heat and power optimization. Energy harvesting. Faculty: Drs. Luiz Lopes, Pragasen Pillay, Sheldon Williamson Director: Dr. Luiz A.C. Lopes Link: http://users.encs.concordia.ca/~perg/ Signal Processing Description: The group is engaged in multidisciplinary research activities targeting advances in the development of signal processing technologies both of a fundamental and applied nature. The objective of the group is to develop sound mathematical basis for reliable processing of speech, image, video and their efficient software and hardware implementations using the principles of engineering design. The current research projects of the group range from voice activities detection, SAR image and seismic data processing, watermarking, video surveillance, audio-video integration to seizure detection. Faculty: Drs. M. Omair Ahmad, Aishy Amer, Scott Gleason, William E. Lynch, M.N.S. Swamy, Wei-Ping Zhu Director: Dr. M. Omair Ahmad Software Engineering and Real-time Systems Description: Members of the group conduct research in different areas including: Software engineering, Real-time embedded software systems, Formal methods, Modeling, Validation and testing, Communication protocol engineering, Multimedia communication architectures and protocols, Service engineering, Evolutionary computation for pattern recognition and image processing, Machine learning for engineering applications. Faculty: Drs. Samar Abdi, Anjali Agarwal, Abdelwahab Hamou-Lhadj, Nawaf Kharma, Ferhat Khendek Director: Dr. Ferhat Khendek Systems and Control Description: The group aims to contribute to multi-disciplinary research activities that target advances in the development of control systems and robotics technologies with applications to a wide range of industrial systems. Our objective is to organically fuse and integrate theoretical concepts, computational methods, and engineering design principles through multi-disciplinary research initiatives and cooperation. Faculty: Drs. Amir Aghdam, Shahin Hashtrudi Zad, Kash Khorasani, Luis Rodrigues Director: Dr. Kash Khorasani Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
62docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research > Professional activities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Professional activities Aghdam, Amir G. Professor Chair IEEE Montreal Section Chair Control Chapter of IEEE Montreal Section Ahmad, M. Omair Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Chair Circuits and Systems Chapter, Montreal Section of IEEE Amer, Aishy Associate Professor Associate Editor Springer Journal of Real-time Image Processing Associate Editor Elsevier Journal for Real-time image Ghrayeb, Ali Professor and Tier II Concordia Research Chair Associate Editor IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology Hamouda, Walaa Professor and Tier II Concordia Research Chair Chair IEEE Communications Montreal Chapter Swamy, M.N.S. Research Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Editor-in-Chief Circuits, Systems and Signal Processing Journal Associate Editor Fibonacci Quarterly Chair IEEE Multimedia Transactions Steering Committee Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
63docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research > Recent publications Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Recent publications See all Related links Spectrum Research repository Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
64docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research > Recent theses Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Recent department theses Related links MASc program PhD program Spectrum Research repository Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
65docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research > Researchers Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Researchers Samar Abdi Assistant professor Embedded System Design Multi-core Systems System-on-Chip Modeling Formal Methods Anjali Agarwal Professor Communication protocols Issues of real-time and multimedia communication over internet Amir G. Aghdam Professor Decentralized large-scale systems Digital control Adaptive control DSL communication networks M. Omair Ahmad Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Algorithms and architectures for image processing Digital signal processing VLSI circuit design Otmane Ait Mohamed Associate Professor Hardware specification and verification Formal methods VLSI design automation Aishy Amer Associate Professor Video and image processing Multimedia Video quality enhancement Noise estimation and reduction Video representation Video segmentation, object segmentation, object tracking Motion estimation Video surveillance Advanced TV-systems and other real-time video applications Amir Asif Professor, Dean of ENCS Glenn Cowan Associate Professor Analog & Mixed-signal VLSI circuit design for signal processing and communication Device variability Circuit design in presence of device variability Design of adaptive VLSI circuits Ali Ghrayeb Professor and Tier II Concordia Research Chair Polymers (plastics, adhesives, sealants etc) Composites based on synthetic fibres Polymers and organic compounds for energy conservation Abdelwahab Hamou-Lhadj Associate Professor Object-oriented Software Engineering Software Maintenance; Reverse Engineering Program Comprehension Software Visualization Walaa Hamouda Professor and Tier II Concordia Research Chair Digital communications Satellite and wireless communications Adaptive antennas Channel coding Shahin Hashtrudi Zad Associate Professor Control systems Discrete-event systems Fault diagnosis M. Zahangir Kabir Associate Professor Electronic materials and devices; X-ray imaging detectors Thin-film and nano-structured solar cells Amorphous and polycrystalline semiconductors Mojtaba Kahrizi Professor MEMS Micro/Nano systems Photonic devices VLSI technology Nawwaf Kharma Associate Professor Artificial Intelligence: Pattern recognition and machine learning Artificial Life: Evolutionary computation and nature inspired computing Real-World Application: Evolution of pattern and image processing software systems Ferhat Khendek Professor and NSERC/Ericsson Senior Industrial Research Chair Real-time Software Engineering: Modelling, Design and Validation Service Engineering for Next Generation Networks Kash Khorasani Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Nonlinear, adaptive and robust control Flexible joint and link robot manipulators Modelling and control of large scale systems Neural networks Real-time systems Singular perturbation analysis Virtual reality and haptic interfaces Ahmed A. Kishk Professor and Tier I Canada Research Chair Dielectric resonator antennas, microstrip antennas, small antennas, microwave sensors, RFID antennas for readers and tags Multi-function antennas, microwave cicuits, EBG, artificial magnetic conductors, soft and hard surfaces, phased array antennas, and computer aided design for antennas. Design of millimeter frequency antennas Feeds for parabolic reflectors Yan Liu Associate Professor Cloud Computing Distributed Systems Software Engineering Web-Enabled Applications Luiz A.C. Lopes Professor Power electronics High power converters Distributed generation William E. Lynch Professor and Chair Image compression Image processing Signal processing Video compression Mustafa K. Mehmet Ali Professor Network architectures for wireless and wired communication networks and their performance modelling. Robert Paknys Professor Antennas, electromagnetic scattering and diffraction. Pragasen Pillay Professor and NSERC/Hydro-Qubec Senior Industrial Research Chair Interests are in modeling, analysis, design and control of electric machines, electric motor drive systems, traction motors for electric and hybrid electric vehicles, renewable energy including wind, biomass and solar energy, energy storage, energy efficiency and conservation, sustainability issues in power and energy engineering Dongyu Qiu Associate Professor Peer to peer networks Network performance analysis Wireless networks Venkat Ramachandran Professor Multidimensional signal processing Two-dimensional analog and digital filters Rabin Raut Professor VLSI/Analog VLSI Hassan Rivaz Assistant Professor Medical image processing Ultrasound elastography Image registration Image fusion Machine learning Pattern recognition Computer vision Luis Rodrigues Associate Professor Control systems Avionics Aerospace Abdel R. Sebak Professor Phased array antennas Applied electromagnetics EM scattering RCS, EMC/EMI, EM Theory Antennas; Computational electromagnetics Yousef R. Shayan Professor Digital communications Error control coding Wireless communication systems Chris Skonieczny Assistant Professor Polymers (plastics, adhesives, sealants etc) Composites based on synthetic fibres Polymers and organic compounds for energy conservation M. Reza Soleymani Professor Communications networks Digital communications Information theory and coding Wireless and satellite communications M.N.S. Swamy Research Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Signal processing Image processing Sofine Tahar Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Hardware specification and verification Formal methods VLSI design automation Communications hardware and protocols Jelena Trajkovic Assistant Professor Optical Network-on-Chip Application Specific Processor Mutli-core System-on-Chip Digital Design and Synthesis Design Automation Embedded Systems Computer Architecture Christopher W. Trueman Professor Aircraft and ship antennas Broadcast antennas Cellular phone antennas Computational electromagnetics Electromagnetic compatibility Finite difference time-domain method Handset and human head interactions Radar cross-section of aircraft and ships Pouya Valizadeh Associate Professor Solid state microwave devices Micro/nano-electronics III-V electronics Noise in semiconductor devices Polarization in semiconductor devices Reliability of electronic devices MEMS technology Chunyan Wang Professor Analog-mixed VLSI design and implementation Large scale CMOS optical sensor integration Digital image processing (John) Xiupu Zhang Professor Photonics Fiber-optic communications Wireless communications and Quantum dot semiconductor lasers, high-power and broadband photodiodes and broadband optical receivers Wei-Ping Zhu Professor Speech and audio processing Advanced signal processing for wireless communications OFDM/MIMO systems MIMO relay networks, cooperative communication. Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
66docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News Convocation preview: 5 great grads, in numbers October 15, 2014 Ted Obuchowicz: Learning on the job September 23, 2014 10 District 3 innovators put their skills to the test June 4, 2014 Excellence in Electrical and Computer Engineering May 23, 2014 Faculty Accolades, February 2014 February 5, 2014 Spiri - A robot in sync with music January 17, 2014 Show more Notice November 12, 2014 Award for Dr. Hamou-Lhadj and his group at IBM Center of Advanced Studies Conference October 1, 2014 Faculty Accolades - October June 17, 2014 Dr. Amir Ajorlou nominated for Best Ph.D.Thesis Award in Quebec June 17, 2014 Faculty Accolades, June 2014 See all 2015 ECE Graduate Student Research (GSR) Conference Thursday, March 12, 2015 9am - 5pm ENCS Atrium  EV Building Concordia-wide events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
67docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Student resources > Capstone Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Capstone The ELEC/COEN 490 project is intended as a capstone course for students at Concordia University. It provides students with a significant design experience and integration of knowledge from several courses.  It also provides students with a means to practice project management, technical writing, and technical presentation skills. Students are expected to gain industrial design experience as much as possible. Students are required to work together in teams and to learn new material. Click here to visit Capstone site Contacts Academic Coordinator Chunyan Wang Contact for academic inquiries, project assignment Technical Coordinator Dmitry Rozhdestvenskiy Contact for resources and technical questions Program Assistant Connie Cianciarelli Contact for general questions, schedules, presentation times, etc. Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
68docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact The  Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering  is supported by a dedicated team of  administrative staff  as well as  research & technical staff . Administrative Contacts Dr. Martin Pugh Department Chair Dr. Lyes Kadem Associate Chair Sophie Mrineau Assistant to the Chair Maureen Thuringer Department Administrator Dominic Ng, .ing. Engineer in Residence Dan Juras Technical and Safety Officer Undergraduate Contacts Dr. Henry Hong Undergraduate and Co-op Program Director Dr. Gerard Gouw Undergraduate Curriculum Director Sabrina Poirier Undergraduate and Co-op Program Assistant Graduate Contacts Dr. Ali Dolatabadi Graduate and Ph.D. Program Director Dr. Sivakumar Narayanswamy Graduate M. Eng and M.A.Sc. Program Director Dr. Marius Paraschivoiu Aerospace Program Director Leslie Hosein Graduate Program Coordinator (Ph.D. and Aerospace) Charlene Wald Graduate Program Coordinator (M. Eng and M.A.Sc.) Conference Room Bookings We have two conference rooms available to our faculty, staff and students for booking. To book a room, please  contact us . To view the current bookings, please log-on to the ENCS  WebCalendar . View larger map Contact us Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering: 514-848-2424 ext. 3125 arlene.zimmerman@concordia.ca 514-848-2424 ext. 3175 Location Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 1515 St. Catherine St. West, EV 4.139 Montreal, Quebec H3G 2W1 Canada Mailing address Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West,  EV 4.139 Montreal, Quebec H3G 1M8 Canada Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
69docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services Our research and teaching labs provide faculty and students access to a variety of specialized equipment and resources. Research Labs Teaching Labs Lab Safety IT Support (AITS) Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
70docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student Banking 101 Learn about the basics of student bank products and make the right choice November 26, 2014, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM The Financial Aid and Awards Office of Concordia University invites all current and future Concordia students to the  Student Banking 101  workshop. In this free workshop, you will learn about the basics of student bank products and will get tips that can help you choose the right products for you. These tips will help you save money and help foster a positive start to your credit history. How to sign up for Financial Literacy Week workshops Go to the  MyConcordia portal Click on Financial Aid and Awards in the left sidebar Click on Workshops Follow the instructions to reserve your place Where Room GM-230-18, Guy-Metro Building  (1550 De Maisonneuve W.), Sir George William Campus Cost This event is free Speakers Kathy Antonopoulos, Luiza-Elisabeta Tudor Organizer Atosa Tangestanifar Organization Financial Aid and Awards Office Website Financial Aid and Awards Office website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 7855 Category Workshops & seminars Export event Other Dates November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 November 28, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
71docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Get the flu shot Book your appointment today to protect yourself and others from the flu November 26, 2014, 9:00 AM – 3:30 PM The health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year. Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe. Flu vaccine clinics start November 18. Come by  Health Services  or drop by the weekly  Healthy YOU at CU information tables  to discuss your questions and concerns with a nurse or health promotion specialist. Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from  WebMD Check out the  Health Services flu clinic schedule ! Where Room AD-307, Administration Building  (7141 Sherbrooke W.), Loyola Campus Cost Free to those who meet the criteria Organization Health Services Website Health Services website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 5276 Category Other events Export event Other Dates November 18, 2014 November 19, 2014 November 21, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
72docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research With over 500 graduate students, including about 100 PhD students, several post-doctoral fellows and invited researchers, our  faculty members  obtain over two million dollars in research grants each year. Our Researchers Research Labs Thesis Database Researchers by Topic: Mechanical Engineering Nano-Systems and nano-materials Robin A.L. Drew Suong Van Hoa Martin D. Pugh Paula Wood-Adams Rolf Wuthrich Christian Moreau Alternative Energy Hoi Dick Ng Marius Paraschivoiu Rolf Wuthrich Mechanics/Dynamics/Vibrations A. K. Waizuddin Ahmed Rama B. Bhat Subhash Rakheja Ramin Sedaghati Ion Stiharu Micro-systems and Devices Javad Dargahi Muthukumaran Packirisamy Sivakumar Narayanswamy Ion Stiharu Rolf Wuthrich Rajamohan Ganesan Mehdi Hojjati Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Ali Dolatabadi Wahid Ghaly Hoi Dick Ng Marius Paraschivoiu Fluid Mechanics Ali Dolatabadi Nabil Esmail Wahid Ghaly Lyes Kadem Hoi Dick Ng Georgios Vatistas Marius Paraschivoiu Heat Transfer Ali Dolatabadi Wahid Ghaly Materials/Composites/Surfaces Robin A.L. Drew Suong Van Hoa Mamoun Medraj Martin D. Pugh Paula Wood-Adams Rolf Wuthrich Ali Dolatabadi Christian Moreau Mechatronics/Control Systems/Flight Control Brandon Gordon Henry Hong Chun-Yi Su Wen-Fang Xie Youmin Zhang Structures/Stress Analysis/FEA Rajamohan Ganesan Suong Van Hoa Ramin Sedaghati Bio-mechanical/Biomedical Engineering Gerard J. Gouw Lyes Kadem Subhash Rakheja Machining/CAD-CAM/CNC Chevy Chen Sivakumar Narayanswamy Researchers by Topic: Industrial Engineering Operations research Mingyuan Chen Ivan Contreras Kudret Demirli Masoumeh Kazemi-Zanjani Flexible and Cellular Manufacturing Systems Akif Bulgak Kudret Demirli Onur Kuzgunkaya Mingyuan Chen Lean Engineering Nadia Bhuiyan Kudret Demirli Logistics/Network Optimization Ivan Contreras Simulation of systems/Virtual Prototyping Mingyuan Chen Ali Akgunduz Product design Nadia Bhuiyan Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
73docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Programs > Graduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Graduate programs Our department offers a dynamic doctoral program and five  Master's degree programs  which trains students in fundamentals and theory or in practical applications. PhD Programs Our PhD programs are designed to provide advanced studies in research in theoretical foundation of the discipline and its applications. The main objective of the PhD program is for candidates to demonstrate ability to carry-out high quality independent research, culminating in a thesis presentation and defence. PhD in  Mechanical Engineering PhD in  Industrial Engineering Masters degrees The department offers two types of Masters degrees. One is Thesis-based which educates students more in depth on a chosen thesis topic, the other is based on course work. MASc. in  Mechanical Engineering M. Eng in  Mechanical Engineering MASc. in  Industrial Engineering M. Eng in  Industrial Engineering Master of Aerospace Engineering Graduate Certificate The Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department offers a Graduate Certificate in Mechanical Engineering for qualified university graduates who wish to obtain expertise in the following disciplines within Mechanical Engineering: Aerospace Composite Materials Control and Automation Manufacturing Systems Theoretical and Computational Fluid Dynamics Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
74docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Programs > Undergraduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Undergraduate programs The Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering offers two distinct undergraduate programs, one leading to the  BEng in Mechanical Engineering , the other to the  BEng in Industrial Engineering . Our programs are  accredited  by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board and our graduates are eligible to become registered professional engineers. Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering The  Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering  program consists of the Engineering Core, the Mechanical Engineering Core, and one of three areas of specialization (options): Aerospace & Propulsion Design & Manufacturing Systems & Mechatronics Learn more Bachelor of Industrial Engineering At Concordia University, industrial engineering is integrated with the mechanical engineering department allowing the students to better understand technical processes. It is the only program of its kind offered in English in Quebec. The  Bachelor of Industrial Engineering  program consists of the Engineering Core, the Industrial Engineering Core, and a selection of elective courses to choose from. Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
75docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > About the department Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the department Dr. Martin D. Pugh, Department Chair A message from the Chair Welcome to the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE). If you are looking for an undergraduate or graduate program in Mechanical or Industrial Engineering in the great city of Montreal, then you have come to the right place. We have many accomplished  full-time faculty members , several  part-time instructors , adjunct professors and  professors emeriti . Our department is also supported by a dedicated team of administrative, technical and research  staff . Both of our undergraduate programs offer  accredited  Engineering degrees and our blend of theoretical, practical and laboratory experiences gives our students a valuable degree ready for engineering in the real world. Our students also have the opportunity to gain work experience through  Co-op  and  CIADI , get involved in many  extra-curricular activities  and make long lasting friendships. Our students go on to find jobs in many sectors including aerospace, automotive, manufacturing and consulting engineering. We have a diverse range of  research activities  in both mechanical and industrial engineering topics and our  teaching and research facilities  are excellent. Engineer your future at MIE-Concordia! Dr. Martin D. Pugh Facilities The  EV Building  relies on electrical and venting systems designed to reduce its environmental footprint. The vertical campus concept has proven to be more than theoretical and the sun-drenched staircases have become an inner causeway for exchange and social interaction between floors. In the EV Building, there is space for all, including faculty and staff offices, labs, lounges and dedicated graduate studies rooms. Faculty, students and staff now work in an environment that creates new links and exchanges between areas. More about our Facilities EV Building Join the Conversation Follow @ENCSConcordia Concordia Engineering ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Related Links Job opportunities Forms for Faculty (Cspace) Contact us for Administrative support Technical support General Contact Page Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
76docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > News & events > Notices Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Notices October 1, 2014 Faculty Accolades - October June 17, 2014 Faculty Accolades, June 2014 April 30, 2014 Faculty Accolades, May 2014 July 2, 2013 Appointment of Rama Bhat as Associate Dean, Academic Affairs June 14, 2012 Hyder Khadim Recognized by the Ordre des ingnieurs March 2, 2012 From Halifax to Montreal, IIE Conference January 13, 2012 Vatistas named EIC Fellow Join the Conversation Follow @ENCSConcordia Concordia Engineering ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter (CSCE:CSC) Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
77docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Student life Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student life We welcome students from all parts of Canada, the US and abroad. Currently, we have over 1500 students registered throughout our Mechanical and Industrial Engineering programs. Current students Student & Professional Associations Campus services at Concordia Financial  support Student  Academic Services Teaching  assistants Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
78docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Current students Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Current students All the resources you need as a current student in your  undergrad  or  grad  studies. Key Resources Forms Deadlines Other Concordia Class Schedule ENCS Class Schedule All ENCS labs schedules Door codes How to avoid plagiarism offence Mechanical Engineering options FAQ Expectations of Originality form : Form to be attached to assignments, projects, and reports for grading. Graduate: Course change form  Drop/Add Graduate: Authorization to Register as a Non-Degree Student (Independent/Visiting) Undergraduate Academic Dates Graduate Academic Dates Graduate Application Deadlines Convocation New to Concordia? Find out about orientation, workshops, and programs for new students. Looking for some help? Check out the many sources of support and academic assistance. What's on Campus? Discover the range of campus resources. Dealing with red tape? Find the office that can provide you with the service you require. Nearing the end of your degree? Get advice on career direction, job search strategies and more. Ask Concordia! Your online advisor. Immediate responses to your questions. FAQs. Concerned about plagiarism? Read about academic integrity and the campus code of conduct. Understanding your GPA Grading system, definitions, regulations, how to calculate, conditional and failed standing. Useful links MyConcordia Portal Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Undergraduate Calendar Graduate Calendar Undergraduate students Graduate students Student Academic Services Student requests, readmission forms, transfer requests and more can all be found at SAS. Visit SAS now Questions? If you do not find what you are looking for, one of the members of our  administrative support  team will be happy to help you. Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
79docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > About the department > Job opportunities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Job opportunities MIE Teaching Assistant Positions If you are a current student who is interested in becoming a teaching assistant, marker or lab instructor for MIE please  review the requirements  before submitting your application. Teaching Assistant Application Form Part-Time Faculty Positions If you are interested in becoming a part-time faculty member within MIE, please see the  Job Opportunities  listed by Human Resources. Part-time Teaching Application Form - Appendix H ENCS Faculty and Teaching Positions Strategic Hire - Sustainable Infrastructure for Communities in Cold Climates Mechanical & Industrial Engineering - Assistant or Associate Professor Canada Research Chair: CIISE - Cyber Security Strategic Hire - Computer Games and Virtual Worlds CIISE - Assistant Professor Assistant Professor, Software Engineering Strategic Hire - Interaction Design, Theory and Practice University Staff Opportunities FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & COMPUTER SCIENCEdocContentEnd
80docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > About the department > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time Faculty Part-time Faculty Professor Emeriti Full-time Faculty Ali Akgunduz Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Associate Dean, Academic Programs 514-848-2424, ext. 3073 S-EV 2145 ali.akgunduz@concordia.ca System Simulation and Statistical Output Analysis, Application of Virtual Reality to system design and analysis (e.g. virtual prototyping), Algorithms and software development for business problems, Operation research and applications, Customer driven product design, Quality control and reliability analysis, Six Sigma quality management, Robust design and design optimization. A. K. Waizuddin Ahmed Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7932 S-EV 4127 waiz.ahmed@concordia.ca Dynamic systems; stability; vehicle systems; vibration isolation and control; railway vehicle dynamics; vehicle system dynamics and design; modeling and analysis of physical systems. Rama B. Bhat Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3137 S-EV 4157 rama.bhat@concordia.ca Random and mechanical vibrations; rotor dynamics; structural acoustics; micromechatronic systems; modal testing and analysis; aeroelasticity; numerical methods Nadia Bhuiyan Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Associate Director, Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 3101 S-EV 12105 nadia.bhuiyan@concordia.ca Operational issues dealing with the design, development, production, and distribution of goods & services, with a focus on emerging tools and techniques in product/process design & development, design and manufacturing technologies, information management, and methods for integrating design & manufacturing to improve process performance. Akif Bulgak Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3161 S-EV 4155 bulgak@encs.concordia.ca Modeling & performance analysis of flexible manufacturing / assembly systems; adaptive/predictive scheduling of flexible manufacturing systems; design optimization and economics of flexible manufacturing/assembly systems; just-in-time manufacturing systems; performance evaluation of manufacturing systems; stochastic optimization; quality and productivity improvement; industrial economics; Chevy Chen Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 3176 S-EV 12189 zezhong.chen@concordia.ca Applied operations research; manufacturing systems design & analysis; production engineering; computer integrated manufacture; simulation of industrial systems; inventory control. Mingyuan Chen Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3134 S-EV 4169 mingyuan.chen@concordia.ca Applied operations research; manufacturing systems design & analysis; production engineering; computer integrated manufacture; simulation of industrial systems; inventory control. John Cheung Extended-Term Appointment, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7913 S-EV 4411 cheung@encs.concordia.ca Ivan Contreras Assistant Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3130 S-EV 4122 ivan.contreras@concordia.ca Transportation and logistics; network optimization and design; facility location; hub location; scheduling; operations research; integer and combinatorial optimization; decomposition methods for large-scale optimization; robust optimization Javad Dargahi Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7967 S-EV 4165 dargahi@encs.concordia.ca Haptic sensors and feedback systems for minimally invasive surgery and robotics, Design and fabrication of intelligent tactile sensors for robots and endoscopes, Design and fabrication of sensors by micromachining, Application of piezoelectric polymers in robotic and endoscopic sensors, Teletaction in minimally invasive surgery. Kudret Demirli Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3160 S-EV 4187 kudret.demirli@concordia.ca (On leave from September 1, 2014 to August 31, 2015) Lean Manufacturing, Lean Supply Chain, and Lean Healthcare. Ali Dolatabadi Professor and Graduate & PhD Program Director, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 5188 S-EV 12109 ali.dolatabadi@concordia.ca CFD, Numerical and experimental Two-phase flows, Microfluidics, Micro-scale actuators, Spray Coatings of metals and ceramics using High Velocity Oxygen Fuel (HVOF) process, Spray and atomization, Heat and mass transfer. Robin A.L. Drew Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7934 S-EV 12102 robin.drew@concordia.ca Research in advanced materials: porous materials ,foams, metal-ceramic composites, metal-ceramic interactions and joining processes. Nabil Esmail Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4194 S-EV 4164 nabil.esmail@concordia.ca Coating paper mechanics in pulp and paper industry; mechanical properties of polymeric liquids; rheology; solid-surface wetting phenomena and mechanics. Rajamohan Ganesan Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3164 S-EV 4211 r.ganesan@concordia.ca Composite materials and structures; stochastic mechanics and random vibrations; stress analysis; finite element method; vibration analysis and machine dynamics; machinery monitoring and diagnostics; engineering fracture mechanics and fatigue. Wahid Ghaly Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4191 S-EV 4151 wahid.ghaly@concordia.ca (On sabbatical from June 1, 2014 to May 31, 2015) Aerodynamic design and optimization methods in turbomachinery; convective heat transfer; theoretical and computational fluid dynamics. Brandon Gordon Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3151 S-EV 4227 bwgordon@encs.concordia.ca Control systems; mechatronics; robotics; virtual reality; distributed computing networks; real-time simulation; active flow control; internal combustion engines; automotive and aerospace control systems. Gerard J. Gouw Professor and Undergraduate Curriculum Director, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4197 S-EV 4171 gerard.gouw@concordia.ca Human factors engineering; safety engineering; biomedical engineering; tribology; numerical methods. Suong Van Hoa Professor and Director of CONCOM, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 3139 S-EV 4145 suong.hoa@concordia.ca Composite materials and structures; design of composite structures; vibration; stress analysis; dynamics; finite element method; testing and evaluation of composite materials and structures; manufacturing of composites. Mehdi Hojjati Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 5740 S-EV 12181 mehdi.hojjati@concordia.ca Henry Hong Associate Professor and Undergraduate and Co-op Program Director, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3154 S-EV 4231 henry.hong@concordia.ca Direct injection of alternative fuels for CI engines; solenoid operated alternative fuel injector systems for diesel engines; fuel control systems for small gas turbine engines; hybrid electric vehicles; electronic / hydromechanical fuel control systems; mechatronic control systems; microprocessor control of electromechanical systems; modeling and simulation of dynamic systems; control systems Suraj Joshi Assistant Professor (LTA), Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 2513 S-EV 4239 suraj.joshi@concordia.ca Weld modeling, machine and structural design, properties of materials, fatigue, failure and finite element analysis. Lyes Kadem Associate Professor and Associate Chair, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3143 S-EV 4207 lyes.kadem@concordia.ca Particle image velocimetry; Cardiovascular biomechanics; Aortic stenosis; Hypertension; Magnetic resonance imaging; Doppler Ultrasound; Experimental fluid mechanics; Mathematical modeling of the arterial system; In vitro experiments. Ashok Kaushal Assistant Professor (LTA), Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3611 S-FB 213 ashok.kaushal@concordia.ca Vibration, Rotordynamics, CAD & FEA Masoumeh Kazemi-Zanjani Assistant Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5061 S-EV 4243 masoumeh.kazemizanjani@concordia.ca Applied stochastic programming and robust optimization in supply chain and operations management; applied operations research; Supply chain management; Production planning; Sustainable operations management (reverse logistics, closed loop supply chains). Onur Kuzgunkaya Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7940 S-EV 4219 onur.kuzgunkaya@concordia.ca Design and Analysis of Flexible/Reconfigurable Manufacturing Systems, Economic Evaluation of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, Manufacturing System Performance Evaluation, Life Cycle Cost (LCC) Analysis, Complexity in Manufacturing, Multiple Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) Methods, Fuzzy Optimization, Lean Manufacturing and Supply Chain Management Mamoun Medraj Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 3146 S-EV 12185 mamoun.medraj@concordia.ca (On leave from September 1, 2014 to August 31, 2015) Light metals, magnesium alloys development, metal matrix composites, computational thermodynamics, phase diagrams, nanostructured coatings, mathematical modeling as a utility in materials processing, and failure analysis and stress waves. Christian Moreau Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7921 S-EV 12183 christian.moreau@concordia.ca Thermal Spraying, Coatings, Properties / Microstructure Relationship, Industrial Applications of Coatings, Particle Diagnostics, Optical, Sensors, Optical Pyrometry, Control of Thermal Spray Processes Sivakumar Narayanswamy Associate Professor and M. Eng & M.A.Sc. Program Director, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7923 S-EV 4124 siva.narayanswamy@concordia.ca Measurement of surface roughness, profile and length using laser interferometry, dynamic characterization of vibrating objects, characterization of MEMS devices. In Micromachining: Pulsed Laser micromachining of photonic devices such as surface relief gratings, fiber bragg gratings and feature size reduction by direct machining Hoi Dick Ng Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3177 S-EV 4229 hoi.ng@concordia.ca Combustion; explosion; detonation and deflagration; shock waves physics; alternative fuel research; energetic materials; theoretical and computational fluid dynamics; applied mathematics, numerical methods Muthukumaran Packirisamy Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 7973 S-EV 4219 m.packirisamy@concordia.ca Optical MEMS (Micro Electro Mechanical Systems), PVDF MEMS, Microphotonics, Dynamics of Microsystems, Integrated Microsensors and Microactuators, Silicon Micromachining, Fuzzy System Identification of Microsystems, Design and manufacturing. Alexandre Paradis Extended-Term Appointment, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3969 S-EV 4181 paradis@encs.concordia.ca Marius Paraschivoiu Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Aerospace Program Director, Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 3147 S-EV 12101 marius.paraschivoiu@concordia.ca Computational fluid dynamics; finite element methods for fluid simulations; aerodynamic simulations; wind energy; acoustic simulations; parallel computing; turbulence modeling. Martin D. Pugh Professor and Chair of the Department, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3170 S-EV 4189 martin.pugh@concordia.ca Plastics, ceramics, metals, and composites; materials science; properties and failure of materials; casting, welding, heat-treating and non-destructive testing. Subhash Rakheja Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3162 S-EV 4121 subhash.rakheja@concordia.ca (On sabbatical from June 1, 2014 to May 31, 2015) Human response to vibration and shock; vehicle dynamics; optimization and vibration control in system design; directional control and stability of commercial vehicles; driver-vehicle interactions; power tools and hand-transmitted vibration; seating dynamics and driver vibration; semi-active and active vibration control; vehicle and ride dynamics; vehicle suspension analysis; Ramin Sedaghati Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7971 S-EV 4125 ramin.sedaghati@concordia.ca Smart Materials and Structures (Adaptive Structures); Adaptive Energy Absorption Systems using Smart ER/MR Fluids; Design Optimization of Lightweight Metallic or Composite Structures; Computational Mechanics (Finite Element Method) Ion Stiharu Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Director of CONCAVE 514-848-2424, ext. 3152 S-EV 4223 istih@encs.concordia.ca Design and manufacturing; dynamics; micromachining and micromechanics; tribology; high precision mechanics; intelligent vehicle systems; micromechatronic devices; microsensors (acoustic, acceleration, pressure, humidity); microtribology; nonconventional lubrication methods; sensors and detection systems. Chun-Yi Su Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3168 S-EV 4221 chun-yi.su@concordia.ca Control systems; mechatronics; precision engineering; robotics; process dynamics and control; linear systems. Georgios Vatistas Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3158 S-EV 4153 georgios.vatistas@concordia.ca Fluid mechanics; vortex dynamics and flow instabilities; experimental aerodynamics; finite difference in fluid dynamics; lubrication; microgravity fluid mechanics; thermodynamics; haemodynamics; numerical methods. Wen-Fang Xie Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4193 S-EV 4237 wenfang.xie@concordia.ca Dynamic modeling and control, Mechatronics, Visual Servo Control, Soft Computing Techniques, Image Processing and Pattern Recognition, Hybrid Electric Vehicle, Industrial Process Control and Flight control. Rolf Wuthrich Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3150 S-EV 4241 rolf.wuthrich@concordia.ca Non traditional manufacturing processes, glass micro-machining, electrochemical discharges, micro-systems , nano-particles, gas evolving electrodes, stochastic process modelling, multi-physics modelling, nanostructured electro-catalysts, hydrogen production, fuel-cells. Part-time Instructors 2014 - 2015 (Winter) Name Course assigned E-mail Abou Ziki, Jana MECH 221/4 M ja_abou@encs.concordia.ca Eshaghi, Mehdi MECH 375/4 M mehdi.eshaghi@gmail.com Gauthier, Pierre AERO464/MECH6121 /4 WW pq_gauthier@hotmail.com Girgis, Sami AERO 465/MECH 6161/4 XX sami.girgis@pwc.ca Khouli, Fidel MECH 6231/4 XX fidel.khouli@concordia.ca Kiyanda, Charles ENGR 391/4 UU kiyanda@encs.concordia.ca Obuchowicz, T. MECH 215/4 YY ted@ece.concordia.ca Roman, Dacian Emilian ENGR 245/4 V dacianr@gmail.com Sy, Mamadou MECH 421/6511 /4 X mamadou@encs.concordia.ca Vaidya, Viwek MECH 6541/4 XX viwek@sympatico.ca Part-time Instructors 2014 - 2015 (Fall) Name Course assigned E-mail B. Deris AERO417/ENGR6421/2-MM bijan.deris@concordia.ca P. Q. Gauthier AERO462/MECH6171/2-MM, MECH461/6111/2-XX pq_gauthier@hotmail.com N. Gollu AERO 482/ENGR 6461/2 X ngollu@gmail.com Z. Li ENGR311/2-X gavinlizhi@gmail.com C. Kiyanda ENGR361/2-L kiyanda@encs.concordia.ca F. Mafakheri INDU320/2-X, INDU330/2-X f.mafakheri@concordia.ca M. Talla INDU 421/2 Y malleswara.talla@concordia.ca T. Obuchowicz MECH215/2-XX ted@encs.concordia.ca D. Davis MECH215/2-Y megadon_emc@yahoo.com M. Nofar MECH221/2-Y mohammadreza.nofar@polymtl.ca F. Khouli MECH6241/2-XX fidel.khouli@concordia.ca Part-time Instructors 2014 - 2015 (Summer) Name Course assigned E-mail C. Asthana ENGR 391/1 AA chandra.asthana@concordia.ca D. Davis ENGR 311/1 AA don@ece.concordia.ca B. Deris MECH 6561/1 CC bijan.deris@concordia.ca P. Q. Gauthier ENGR 391/1 CC, MECH 461/6111 /1 AA pq_gauthier@hotmail.com S. Joshi ENGR 311/1 AB suraj.joshi@concordia.ca Professor Emeriti Name Title Contact Dr. Richard M. H. Cheng Distinguished Professor Emeritus Kalman Krakow Associate Professor Emeritus Dr. Vojislav Latinovic Professor Emeritus Dr. Sui Lin Distinguished Professor Emeritus Dr. Hugh J. McQueen Distinguished Professor Emeritus Room : EV3.240 Tel. : 514-848-2424, ext. 3145 Email :  mcqueen@encs.concordia.ca http://users.encs.concordia.ca/~mcqueen/ Dr. Rakif A. Neemeh Associate Professor Emeritus Dr. M.O.M. Osman Distinguished Professor Emeritus Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
81docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > About the department > Staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Staff The department is supported by a dedicated team of  administrative staff  as well as  research and technical staff . Administrative Staff Sophie Mrineau Title Assistant to the Chair Room EV004.163 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3126 E-mail sophie.merineau@concordia.ca Duties Providing administrative support to the department Chair Coordinating academic workload with the unit Ensuring critical CUPFA and CUFA deadlines are met Ordering textbooks for faculty members Processing contracts for students, research assistants/associates, visiting professors, teaching assistants and part-time faculty members, etc. Maureen Thuringer Title Department Administrator Room EV004.143 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 7975 E-mail maureen@encs.concordia.ca Duties Managing the departments day to day operations and funds Implementing policies and procedures Supervising administrative staff Card access, inventory, and seat assignments Arlene Zimmerman Title Office Assistant Room EV004.139 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3125 E-mail arlene.zimmerman@concordia.ca Duties Receiving and redirecting visitors and students in person and on the phone Providing general office assistance Ordering office supplies Graduate Program Coordinators Leslie Hosein Title Graduate Program Coordinator Room EV004.152 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 8750 E-mail hosel@encs.concordia.ca Duties Advising prospective and current students in the Mechanical Engineering Ph.D. program on their course requirements, deadline dates and academic progress Coordinating the Master of Engineering in Aerospace program Managing all graduate awards and scholarships Organizing the Undergraduate Capstone Design and Awards Ceremony Charlene Wald Title Graduate Program Coordinator Room EV004.150 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3131 E-mail charlene@alcor.concordia.ca Duties Advising prospective and current Master of Applied Science, Master of Engineering and Graduate Certificate students on their course requirements, deadline dates and academic progress Preparing and submitting documentation for the Curriculum Tracking System (Graduate) Undergraduate Program Assistant Sabrina Poirier Title Undergraduate and Co-op Program Assistant Room EV004.144 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3133 E-mail sabrina.poirier@concordia.ca Duties Advising prospective and current students regarding programs, courses, and polices Working with the Institute for Co-operative Education to help Co-op students maintain an acceptable sequence and course schedule Processing ENGR 411 Technical Reports as well as Option Selections Providing information to all faculty members regarding student related regulations and issues Providing assistance to the Undergraduate Program Director as well as the First-Year Program Directors as required Preparing and submitting documentation for the Curriculum Tracking System (Undergraduate) Liaising with the examinations office for final exams, deferrals, supplementals, and any other special circumstances Maintaining and updating the department website to ensure all items are current Research and Technical Staff Machinist Juan Alfara Title Machinist Room H 0076-3 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3070 E-mail alfara@encs.concordia.ca Duties Instructing students in machining and manufacturing, on conventional and NC machines (MECH 311 and MECH 6611) Guiding, advising and supervising of students, manufacturing projects (undergraduate and graduate) Providing support and machining for Capstone projects (MECH 490) Providing support to SAE (Society of Automotive Engineering) Technicians Bill Chicoine Title Technician Room H 0024-20 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 7906 E-mail wchicoin@alcor.concordia.ca Jose Esteves Title Technician Room EV004.152 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 7933 E-mail esteves@encs.concordia.ca Gilles Huard Title Technician Room H 1055-00 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 8798 E-mail gilles.huard@concordia.ca Duties Operating and assisting in the following undergraduate labs: MECH 373, MECH 470, MECH 471, MECH 473, MECH 480 Planning and developing laboratories for controls, microprocessors, industrial electronics, instrumentations and measurement Supervising the functionality and safety of Capstone projects involving electronic circuits Inspiring graduate students who have electronic questions Fixing/troubleshooting broken electronic apparatus in the department Rudi Krueger Title Technician Room H 1062-00 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3199 E-mail rkrueger@encs.concordia.ca Duties Operating and assisting in the following undergraduate labs: MECH 211, MECH 321, MECH 351 Providing guidance and support for Capstone projects ( hydraulics, pneumatics, machining and repair) Loaning equipment, material storage, rapid prototyping, as well as helping out in EDMl as required Brad Luckhart Title Technician Room H 1045-02 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3149 E-mail bluckhar@encs.concordia.ca Duties Operating and assisting in the following undergraduate labs: (MECH 343, MECH 361, MECH 443, MECH 447, MECH 461) Specializing in apparatus for vibration, heat, fluids and gases, as well as industrial automation Alex MacPherson Title Technician Room H 0025-1 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 7954 E-mail macphers@alcor.concordia.ca Robert Oliver Title Technician Room H 1061-00 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 8797 E-mail oliver@encs.concordia.ca Duties Operating and assisting in the following undergraduate labs:  MECH 321, MECH 421,  MECH 423, MECH 351 Providing guidance and support for Capstone projects ( hydraulics, pneumatics, machining and fixturing of experiment setups) Testing materials on the MTS and the Instron tensile machines as well as other equipment. Fixing/troubleshooting broken apparatus within the department. Henry Szczawinski Title Technician Room EV0S3.419 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 2984 E-mail henrys@encs.concordia.ca Duties Operating and assisting in the following undergraduate labs:  MECH 352, MECH 452, and Composite laboratories Providing support for electron microscopes, vacuum systems, clean rooms, electro-mechanics/mechatronics, controls, instrumentation, and fabrication and fixturing of experiment setups. Professional staff Dan Juras Title Technical Officer Room EV003.282 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3128 E-mail juras@encs.concordia.ca Duties Managing the departmental technical resources, equipment, laboratories, and infrastructure General safety supervision and management of the MIE laboratories Supervising the technical support staff Dominic Ng Title Engineer in Residence Room EV003.286 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3746 E-mail dng@encs.concordia.ca Duties Providing guidance and support for Capstone projects as well as other mechanical engineering projects in the department Managing the development and operation of the design and manufacturing laboratories Managing the staff in the design and manufacturing laboratories Peter Sakaris Title Laboratory Specialist Room H 1047-00 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3153 E-mail peter.sakaris@concordia.ca Duties Develop and design undergraduate laboratory experiments in the field of thermo-fluid and materials. Update and/or create laboratory manuals for the undergraduate students. Train and supervise lab instructors to perform their required tasks. Provide on-site support to the lab demonstrators. Recommend process improvements of the thermo-fluid and material laboratories. Perform research for new equipment and recommend future purchases. Petre Tzenov Title Laboratory Coordinator Room EV004.183 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 8670 E-mail tzenov@encs.concordia.ca Duties Ensuring that the day-to-day operation of the teaching labs run smoothly Managing the undergraduate lab schedule Organizing the development of up-to-date lab manuals Planning and developing new experiments with faculty and staff members Recommending and participating in the purchase of new equipment Preparing workload assignments for teaching assistants Organizing the training of lab demonstrators and supervision of teaching assistants Tianhe Wen Title Laboratory Specialist Room H 1060 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3127 E-mail wen@encs.concordia.ca Duties Assures that quality of the laboratory is maintained through the training and supervision of laboratory demonstrators and students in the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering undergraduate laboratories. Wen is responsible for the following areas; control, electronics, instrumentation, system modeling, microprocessors and micro-controllers, mechatronics, flight control systems, automation. theory of machines and vibration. Assists and guides the demonstrators in the laboratory instructional environment and, along with a faculty member and technician, develops and designs laboratory experiments and writes and updates the laboratory manuals for his area. Michael Rembacz Title Manufacturing and Machining Instructor Room H 0024 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 8671 E-mail michael.rembacz@concordia.ca Duties Instructing students in machining and manufacturing  (MECH 311) Guiding, advising and supervising of students manufacturing projects Developing curriculum for EDML and ECT (extra-curricular training) Providing support to Capstone projects Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
82docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty Accolades, May 2014 SAEs first-place finish in Detroit, recognition for aerospace research, and annual design awards in mechanical and industrial engineering Posted on April 30, 2014 | By: Laurence Miall Source:  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Photo credit: Dan Juras The Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) World Congress and Exhibition in Detroit, Michigan is one of the biggest car industry events of the year. It was on this international stage that, on  April 8, 2014,  Concordia's student chapter of the SAE and its Supermileage project clinched first place in the prestigious Student Exhibit Competition. Concordia's team finished ahead of 10 others, including groups from Puerto Rico, the United States and, closer to home, the cole Polytechnique de Montral. The competition's judges included industry experts from companies like General Motors, Ford, Chrysler and NASCAR. Photo credit: Concordia University Suong Hoa, professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, and his research collaborators, were awarded first place in the project category at the research forum of the  Consortium de Recherche et innovation synergtiques en arospatiale  (CRIAQ), hosted in Montreal  April 16-17, 2014 . Hoa worked with fellow Concordian, Minguan Chen, along with Pascal Hubert from McGill University and Goran Fernlund from the University of British Columbia on a project funded by the  Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council  of Canada (NSERC). The teams research resulted in a prototype built out of composite materials using what is called out of autoclave manufacturingthat is, cured in an oven only. This project has great potential of lowering the overall costs of materials used in the aerospace industry. This team worked on a Capstone project sponsored by Mega Brands to improve the quality of the products from the packaging production line. The team designed, manufactured, assembled and tested the parts on both test rig and production machine. Photo credit: Dan Juras Congratulations to all the members of the prize-winning teams at the annual Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Design Awards Day. Among so many strong projects, here were the prize-winners. Richard Cheng Design Award for Mechanical Engineering Project: Mars Rover. Team members - Vanessa Cheng, Bingzi Li, Stephanie Lambrinakos-Raymond, Ivan Ivanov, Nicholas Di Virgilio, Stefanos Dermenakis, Mercedes Parrella-Ilaria. 1 st  and 2 nd  Prize Capstone Design Awards for Mechanical Engineering Project: Carbon-Fibre Monocoque Body for the Concordia SAE Super-Mileage Team. Team members: Mehran Eimanlou, Norvan Gharabegi, Daniel Woo, Alexandre Laroche, Tareq El Alami Project: Design of a complete heart duplicator. Team members: Alexandre Blanger, Emilia Benevento, Kevin Caro, Giuseppe Di Labbio, Nick Ghaffari, Brittney Hachey, Vahid Noohi, Oliviero Radack. Capstone Design Award for Industrial Engineering Project: MUHC Ambulatory Care Centre at the Glen Cancer Centre.  Team members: Amy Tuyet Nhi Ma, Elizabeth Mokrusa, Johnny Alberto Paredes Seminario, Rodger Ragasa, Pardeep Trehan. Mega Brands Prizes for Design Project: Design and process improvement on packaging production line, sponsored by Mega Brands   Team members: MBaye Diagne, Jason Gagnon, Mohamad Hallak, Akosua Osei-Bonsu, Turki Halawani, Elodie Marchand, Mina Jafari, Yassin Ahmed Project: Design and process improvement on packaging production line, sponsored by Mega Brands Team members: Tarek Elewa, Didier Calixte, Oscar Ulises Maldonado Nunez, Payam Rizvi, Philippe Kaplo, Ratanang Kubanj, Simon Sidarous Silas Katz Award -Tayeb Zitouni Certificates of Merit for undergraduate student involvement in extracurricular activities through student associations -Joyce Alfara, IIE President -Space Concordia members: Mercedes Parrella , Nicholas Velenosi, Neil Woodcock, Ivan Ivanov, Mehdi Sabzalian, Karol Laguna-Elliott Related Topics awards engineering accolades Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
83docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty Accolades, June 2014 Posted on June 17, 2014 | By: Laurence Miall Source:  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Peter Rigby , assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering, was one of four winners of Concordias 2014 University Research Award. Rigby has described the aim of his research as being like sociology in a software engineering context. He explains: Software firms have begun releasing products more quickly. For example, Facebook releases a new version of its software to over one billion users twice a day. In collaboration with the Department of National Defence, Microsoft and other organisations, we are creating statistical models to understand the impact of quickly released features on software quality& A model of 'how fast is too fast' will allow different firms to determine how quickly they can release new features, and provide a sound basis on which to make decisions that affect the success of a company. The other winners of this years research award were Daniel Cross, Gilles Peslherbe, and Thien Thanh Dang-Vu. Glenn Cowan , associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has won the Concordia Emerging Leadership Award. This award recognizes exceptional leadership abilities and achievement. Cowan joined Concordia in 2007, and has since been active on numerous committees at the department and faculty levels, as well as in the School of Graduate Studies. He has assumed these leadership roles while retaining a very productive and active research agenda, said Jorgen Hansen, vice-provost of Faculty Relations. Cowan has also demonstrated exceptional leadership in curriculum development, most notably in his work to establish an Electronic/Very Large Scale Integration option in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. The winning team at Acfas 2014. Photo credit: Hombeline Dumas Rolf Wthrich , associate professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, and his research team won first prize at the business case competition held during the 82nd International Congress of Acfas (Association canadienne-franaise pour l'avancement des sciences), this year was hosted by Concordia, May 12-16, 2014. Wthrichs team developed an innovative catalyst for producing hydrogen, thanks to a patented electrochemical treatment. This innovation means that nickel electrodesthe industry standardare rendered almost as efficient at production as when platinum is used as a catalyst. Lyes Kadem , associate professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, has won the Presidents Excellence in Teaching Award. He begins each of his lectures in thermodynamics by introducing a real-world engineering problem, which he then relates to the course material. As Christopher Trueman, interim dean of the Faculty of Engineering, points out, this simple technique has proven remarkably successful in motivating students in thermodynamics to appreciate the importance of this fundamental course. The other winners of the teaching award this year were Philippe Caignon, Lan Lin, and Santo Roman. Amir Ajorlou , a recently-graduated student supervised by Amir Aghdam in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has been nominated for the Best Ph.D. Thesis Award in the Province of Quebec.  His thesis was called Connectivity Preservation in Distributed Control of Multi-Agent System. Ajorlou is a two-time gold medal winner of the International Mathematical Olympiad, and the author of over 30 papers in the most prestigious journals and conferences in control systems, which to date been cited over 200 times. He obtained his Ph.D. from Concordia University in 2013, and is currently a postdoctoral research fellow at the University of Pennsylvania. Supermileage team win the 35th Anniversary Endurance Award Concordia SAE , the student chapter of the Society of Automotive Engineers, has wrapped up an impressive racing season. The Supermileage teams year started off exceptionally when they won first place in the prestigious Student Exhibit Competition at the SAE World Congress and Exhibition in Detroit, April 8. The Supermileage team went on to win the 35th Anniversary Endurance Award (minimum of five successful fuel economy runs) at the SAE Supermileage event held  June 5-6 at Eatons Proving Grounds in Marshall, Michigan .   Meanwhile, the Formula SAE team finished fifteenth in Design Judging at the Formula SAE contest at the Michigan International Speedway in Brooklyn, Michigan  a great achievement since this is the biggest Formula SAE event in the world. Space Concordia  finished second to the University of Victoria in the second Canadian Satellite Design Challenge. In total, 11 teams started this competition; five made it to the final stage, held at the David Florida Laboratory in Ottawa, May 27-29, 2014. Concordias ConSat-1 team won the inaugural competition in September 2012. Space Concordias second contest entry, ConSat-2, also known as Aleksandr  a name chosen by the largest individual donor to the teams successful Kickstarter fundraising campaign  was created to test self-healing material in space. The material  supplied by Suong V. Hoa, professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering  may have the ability to prolong the lifespan of space structures. Dan Juras , technical officer in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, has been awarded a Safety Ambassador Award by Environmental Health & Safety. This is a recognition of the tough but important job that Dan does keeping students and researchers safe in the labs. And to all the students celebrating their Convocation this spring, CONGRATULATIONS! Related Topics engineering Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
84docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty Accolades - October Posted on October 1, 2014 | By: Laurence Miall Source:  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Peter Rigby , assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering, was one of four winners of Concordias 2014 University Research Awards. His overarching research interest is in understanding how developers collaborate to produce successful software systems. His research program is driven by a desire to determine empirically the factors that lead to the development of successful software and to adapt, apply, and validate these techniques in different settings. Glenn Cowan,  associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has won the Concordia Emerging Leadership Award. This award recognizes exceptional leadership abilities and achievement. Cowan is a member of the VLSI research group, which conducts work in the fields large scale integrated circuits  i.e. design and implementation of analog-mixed signal circuits, integrated sensors, and VLSI systems for signal processing, communications, robotics and other applications. Lyes Kadem , associate professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, won the Presidents Excellence in Teaching Award. In addition to his teaching duties, Kadem conducts research as the director of the Laboratory of Cardiovascular Fluid Dynamics. The lab researches the cardiovascular system from an engineering aspect, using engineered cardiac simulators. As for his teaching philosophy, Kadem says, I can summarize my thoughts on teaching in one line: a piece of chalk, a blackboard, and to make it simple, like my teachers taught me. Christian Moreau  in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering has been elected as President of the Thermal Spray Society of ASM International [American Society for Metals] for a two-year term. Moreau is a Tier 1 Canada Research Chair whose team develops diagnostics and modeling tools to improve coating materials and to tailor them for optimum performance in industrial applications. His work will improve energy efficiency and can boost economic growth in the aerospace sector. Govind Gopakumar  in the Centre for Engineering in Society has received a grant from the Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute, a well-established institution in international academic exchange supported by the Government of Canada and Government of India. The grant is a Partnership Development Grant for $5,000 and will support a design process to create a manifesto for inclusive buses in Bangalore, India. The Canadian Association of Composite Structures and Materials has created a new student award that bears the name of  Suong Hoa  from the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. The award is called the Professor Suong V. Hoa Student Paper Award and will be presented for the first time in a special session of the Canadian-International Composites Conference to be held in Edmonton, Alberta next summer. The prize is valued at $1,000 for the first-place winne, $500 for the second-place winner, and $250 for the third-place winner. Related Topics General interest Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
85docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs A blend of fundamentals and theory, practical applications, and hands-on learning with opportunities for both  work and study terms  gives our students a valuable degree ready for engineering in the real world. Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Subjects Mechanical Engineering Build engines. Design robots. Control explosions. As a mechanical engineer, you will create, construct and control machines. Whether its a vehicle, an aircraft engine or an assembly line, mechanical engineers know how to fit that square peg into a round hole, and do it with a little finesse. Industrial Engineering Use your knowledge of human behaviour, equipment, information and modes of communication to develop processes that work. Industrial engineers are experts in optimization who apply mathematics, engineering and psychological principles to improve productivity, safety and quality. A knack for project management can lead to a career in many different economic sectors. Degrees Undergraduate Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering Bachelor of Industrial Engineering Graduate MASc. in Mechanical Engineering MASc. in Industrial Engineering M. Eng in Mechanical Engineering M. Eng in Industrial Engineering Master of Aerospace Engineering PhD Program in   Mechanical Engineering PhD Program in  Industrial Engineering Graduate Certificate in  Mechanical Engineering Co-op and CIADI Courtesy of Bombardier Inc. Co-op Program This program, which alternates work and study terms, is available to students in: Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering Bachelor of Industrial Engineering M. Eng in Mechanical Engineering M. Eng in Industrial Engineering Learn more Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI) The following students also have the opportunity to join CIADI. Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering Bachelor of Industrial Engineering Master of Aerospace Engineering Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
86docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Facilities & services > Research Labs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Labs A wide variety of state-of-the-art facilities are available for the research activities of our  faculty , students, post-doctoral fellows & invited researchers. Our Researchers Contact us Automated Fiber Placement (AFP) Lab Room: EV-0S2.309 Learn more Composites Manufacturing Laboratory Rooms: EV-14.225 Learn more Fluid Mechanics Room: EV-0S3.460 Learn more Metallurgy Laboratory Room: EV-14.150 Learn more Polymer Science and Rheology Laboratory Room: EV-13.210 Learn more Space Structures Vibration Laboratory Room: EV-0S2.347 Learn more Vehicular Ergonomics Laboratory Room: EV-0S3.335 Learn more Bio-MEMS Laboratory Room: EV-12.150 Learn more Controls & Mechatronics Group Room: EV-0S2.355 Learn more Fuel & Combustion Laboratory Rooms: EV-001.207-215 Learn more Materials Laboratory (EV-13.205) Room: EV-13.205 Learn more Metrology & Micromachining Room: EV-013.301 Learn more Surfaces and Interfaces Laboratory Room: EV-0S2.310 Learn more Cardiovascular Fluid Dynamics Room: EV-0S2.101 Learn more Concordia Silicon Microfabrication Lab (ConSiM) Learn more Hitachi Scanning Electron Microscope Laboratory Room: EV-14.173 Learn more Materials Laboratory (EV-13.148) Room: EV-13.148 Learn more Multiphase Flow Laboratory Room: EV-14.154 Learn more Tactile Sensors Laboratory Room: EV-12.154 Learn more Composites Testing and Characterization Lab Room: EV-0S3.431 Learn more Electro-Catalytic Green Engineering Group Room: EV-14.205 Learn more Human Factors Room: EV-014.161 Learn more MEGA (Mini Electron Gun Accelerator) Room: EV-008.161 Learn more Optical-Bio Microsystems Laboratory Room: EV-13.215 Learn more Thermal Spray Laboratory Room: LB-762 Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
87docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Facilities & services > Teaching Labs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Teaching Labs Our newly renovated teaching labs offer a unique, hands-on, learning environment. Lab Safety IT Support (AITS) Analysis and Design of Control Systems Room: H-1051 Learn more Electronics and Instrumentation Room: H-1053 Learn more Heat Transfer Laboratory Room: H-1045 Learn more Mechanical Design Laboratory Room: H-1067 Learn more Vehicle Dynamics Room: H-1066 Learn more Anatomy of Engineering Room: H-1067 Learn more Engineering Design and Manufacturing Lab (EDML) Room: H-0024 Learn more Human Factors Room: H-0829 Learn more Modelling, Simulation and Control Systems Room: H-0822 Learn more Vibrations Room: H-1064 Learn more Computer Integrated Manufacturing Lab Room: H-0829 Learn more Flight Control systems Room: H-867 Learn more Materials I Laboratory Room: H-1059 Learn more Theory of Machines Room: H-1040 Learn more Control Systems and Mechatronics Room: H-1057 Learn more Fluids Mechanics/Gas Dynamics Laboratory Room: H-1049 Learn more Materials II Laboratory Room: H-1058 Learn more Thermodynamics Laboratory Room: H-1063 Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
88docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Facilities & services > Lab Safety Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Lab Safety Safety is a number one priority in our Engineering Program as supported by University policy  VPS-40 . Teaching laboratories are supervised by trained technical staff who also have completed first aid & CPR training. Dr. Jayan Ozhikandathil in front of a nano particle enclosure used for the safe transfering of nano materials into solution. Laboratory Safety Guidelines Students are required to follow our  laboratory safety guidelines  and to be aware of  emergency procedures . We work closely with the  Environmental Health and Safety  office (EH&S). Any student who has a question regarding safety can contact the department safety officer or EH&S for assistance. Every project requires attention and the prioritization of safety principles, training required, hazard identification, risk analysis and hazard mitigation. The department safety committee comprised of of faculty, students and staff meet regularly to discuss safety and training. Safety Training Events Consult this calendar  of safety training events encompassing chemical handling, hazardous materials, corrosives, lasers, radioactive materials. Technical Officer Dan Juras Title Technical Officer Room: EV003.282 Phone: 514-848-2424 ext: 3128 Fax: 514-848-3171 E-mail: juras@encs.concordia.ca Duties: Managing the departmental technical resources, equipment, laboratories, and infrastructure General safety supervision and management of the MIE laboratories Supervising the technical support staff Campus Security Phone:  514-848-3717 Dial 1 for emergencies Dial 2 for non-emergencies General Inquiries Technical Officer Phone:  514-848-3717 Ext 3128 Room:   EV003.282 E-mail Download Emergency Procedure Manual Safety Regulations for Students in all MIE Laboratories Related Links Concordia Environmental Health & Safety Concordia Emergency Procedures Video Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
89docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News More latest news To infinity and beyond: Space Concordia rub shoulders with the astronautical elite October 3, 2014 Bone scaffold: engineering a game-changing health innovation July 16, 2014 New PhD and Certificate programs June 16, 2014 Four exceptional professors honoured with Presidents Excellence in Teaching Awards( June 4, 2014 10 District 3 innovators put their skills to the test June 4, 2014 Concordia engineering students pack big innovations into tiny cars April 23, 2014 ENCS Notices November 24, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 21, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 26, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing October 31, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak November 26, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 21, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry More notices Events More events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition MIE Notices October 1, 2014 Faculty Accolades - October June 17, 2014 Faculty Accolades, June 2014 Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
90docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Current students > Graduate students Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Graduate students Join the  MIE Graduate Student Committee Facebook page ! General Graduate Registration Information Class schedule Engineering course descriptions Course change form : Drop/Add Authorization to Register as a Non-Degree Student (Independent/Visiting) Verify course registration:  MyConcordia Portal On-line Registration (M.Eng ONLY) Please Note:  On-line registration is available to  CURRENT  M.Eng. students only. NEW students are NOT permitted to register on-line for their first semester . On line Registration information for  M. ENG AEROSPACE On line Registration information for  M. ENG INDUSTRIAL On line Registration information for  M. ENG MECHANICAL MASc & PhD students Consult with your thesis supervisor on course selection and get his/her signature of approval on the Registration Form. The following courses need NOT be registered: ENGR 8901: MASc thesis ENCS 8501: PhD Comprehensive Examination ENCS 8511: Doctoral Research Proposal ENCS 8911: PhD thesis Ph.D. students may register for ENCS 8011 (Ph.D. Seminar) only after they have completed ENCS 8511 (Doctoral Research Proposal). Graduate Studies Handbook Graduate Thesis information Students must submit the thesis to the Thesis Office at least 6 weeks before the defence date for PhD thesis and 3-weeks for M.A.Sc thesis. Thesis Handbook Current students Undergraduate students Mechanical Option Selection FAQ Course sequences Capstone Engineering Design Project Graduate students Contacts Graduate and Ph.D. Program Director Dr. Ali Dolatabadi Graduate M. Eng and M.A.Sc. Program Director Dr. Sivakumar Narayanswamy Aerospace Program Director Dr. Marius Paraschivoiu Graduate Program Coordinator (Ph.D. and Aerospace) Leslie Hosein Graduate Program Coordinator (M. Eng, M.A.Sc. and Certificate) Charlene Wald Join the Conversation MIE Graduate Student Committee Thesis Database The Thesis Office produces an  online database  of all theses produced since 1978. It is searchable by convocation, degree, supervisor, thesis title key words or student. Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
91docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Current students > Undergraduate students Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Undergraduate students Course Sequences & Registration When and how do I register? Registration in specific course sections is on a first-come first-serve basis. Students are strongly recommended to register for immediately at the beginning of the registration cycle. For complete registration info as well as exact start dates please consult  Course Registration . Additional rules regarding registration regulations and pre-requisites are outlined in the  Undergraduate Calendar, section 71.10.4 . How many courses will I be taking? Full-time students take from 4 to 6 courses per semester. You should adhere to the suggested  Course Sequence s for your program in order to avoid scheduling conflicts or lack of pre-requisites. If you feel that you need a reduced course load, or have any other concerns, please see your Undergraduate Program Assistant for advice before dropping any of your courses. What if I fall out-of-sequence or need to re-schedule a work-term? Students who are out-of-sequence may encounter course scheduling conflicts, exam schedule conflicts, be missing critical prerequisites, or find a lack of course offerings to suit their needs. For these reasons, we encourage out-of-sequence students to try and get back into our reccomended sequences as soon as possible. If you are anticipating a change of sequence or have already received your Change of Sequence Form from Co-op, please follow the steps below BEFORE contacting your Undergraduate Program Assistant/Director. Once you have a plan laid out, we will review it with you and approve it if necessary (i.e. Co-op students). Step 1:  Find and review your current official  Course Sequence . Step 2:  Review the pre-requisite requirements for your remaining courses. You can use the Sequence Flowcharts ( Mechanical Flowchart  or  Industrial Flowchart ) in addition to the course descriptions in the  Undergraduate Calendar  to assist you. Step 3:  Research the availability of your necessary courses using the current  Class Schedule and Registration Guide . Many common core courses are offered in the evening, or in both fall and winter semesters, and in the summer as well. Our schedule may change from year to year, but it is a good place to start your planning. Step 4:  Draft out a plan of your remaining courses. You may use this  Sequence Template  if you wish. Note: Co-op students may have additional rules and regulations to follow. Please review your  Co-op Handbook  for details. Step 5:  Have your Undergraduate Program Assistant/Director review and approve your plan. Mechanical Engineering Course Sequences Option Selection FAQ Sequence Flowchart Industrial Engineering Course Sequences Technical Electives Sequence Flowchart Course Information Important links Other ENCS Form and Style Guide Expectations of Originality Form Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Report (ENGR 412) Capstone Engineering Design Project (MECH/INDU 490) Undergraduate Academic Dates Academic Integrity Code of Conduct What is Plagiarism? CIADI Co-op Institute Co-op Handbook ENCS Helpdesk IT Support MyConcordia Portal ECA Student Associations Current students Undergraduate students Mechanical Option Selection FAQ Course sequences Capstone Engineering Design Project Graduate students Contacts Undergraduate and Co-op Program Director Dr. Henry Hong Undergraduate Curriculum Director Dr. Gerard Gouw Undergraduate and Co-op Program Assistant Sabrina Poirier Additional Registration Information University Writing Test Requirement Student Academic Services (SAS) Undergraduate Class Schedule ENCS Course list Registration guide Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
92docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Student life > Student & Professional Associations Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student & professional associations Alumni Network - ENCS As a graduate of the Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science, you are a valued member of a network of over 15,000 alumni throughout the world. Staying connected to our alma mater brings many rewards, not least of which is the networking opportunity at our many events. You'd be surprised at the pace of positive developments at Concordia University, and your alumni chapter will keep you abreast of all the latest news.  Learn more Student associations Association Facebook E-mail ECA  (Engineering and Computer Science Association) GSA  (Concordia Graduate Student Association) ECSGA  (Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association) CASI  (Canadian Aeronautics and Space Institute) CASI Concordia casi@ecaconcordia.ca CSME  (Canadian Society for Mechanical Engineering) CSME Concordia csme@ecaconcordia.ca CSU  (Concordia Student Union) IIE  (Institute of Industrial Engineering) IIE Concordia Chapter iie@ecaconcordia.ca SAE  (Society of Automotive Engineers) Concordia SAE sae@concordiasae.ca Space Concordia Space Concordia info@spaceconcordia.ca Women in Engineering Women in Engineerig Concordia wie@ecaconcordia.ca Quebec Engineering Games Concordia Team 2K14 Concordia Eng Games enggames@ecaconcordia.ca EWB  (Engineers Without Borders) concordia@ewb.ca Professional associations Association Facebook E-mail OIQ  (Ordre des ingnieurs du Quebec) Engineers Canada IIE  (Institute of Industrial Engineers) Engineers without borders Canada Join the Conversation Follow @ENCSConcordia Concordia Engineering ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
93docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News More latest news $1.3 million grant bolsters aerospace research in Montreal November 25, 2014 Biomedical research scientist receives high Indian honour November 5, 2014 Information overload? Theres a Big Data Consortium for that November 4, 2014 High backs? Low backs? Red chairs? Yellow chairs? October 27, 2014 Canadian Space Agency president finds the future of astronautical engineering excellence at Concordia October 23, 2014 11 new University Research Chairs embody Concordias numerous strengths October 15, 2014 ENCS Notices November 24, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 21, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 26, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing October 31, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak November 26, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 21, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry More notices Events More events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition Notices November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 25, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
94docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact If you know who you're searching for at CIISE,  visit our staff page . Search in Concordia Directory Graduate Program Enquiries View larger map How to find us By air If you are traveling by air, flights from North America and abroad now come into  Montral-Trudeau Airport , 22 km west of downtown Montreal. The Arobus bus service to downtown Montreal costs $14 one way (as of June 2007). Upon arrival at the terminus on Berri and de Maisonneuve Sts., either take a taxi or the subway (mtro) to the EV building , which is located on St. Catherine street. If you take the subway, travel in the Angrignon direction (green line) and exit at the Guy-Concordia stop you will have access to EV building from the metro exit. Another option from the airport is to take the #204 public transit bus heading to the Dorval bus terminal, then take the #211 heading downtown. Get off at Lionel-Groulx mtro (subway) station, and take the green line in the Honor-Beaugrand direction, to Guy-Concordia station. See the  Aroports de Montral  website for further transportation information. By train Traveling to Montreal by train will bring you to Central Station, which is just a few blocks from Concordia on Ren-Lvesque Blvd. West, near Mansfield Street (Blvd. Rn-Lvesque Ouest et rue Mansfield) You may either walk to the EV building, or take a short taxi ride. Train schedules are available online at  VIA Rail  (for journeys within Canada) and  Amtrak  (for journeys from the USA). Commuter train schedules are available from the the  Agence mtropolitaine de transport  (AMT). By car If you are coming to Montreal from the east or south (highways 10, 15, or 20), take the Dcarie Expressway (Autoroute Dcarie) to Sherbrooke St. West (rue Sherbrooke Ouest), exit 64. If you are coming to Montreal from the north or west (highways 15, 20, or 40), take the Dcarie Expressway (Autoroute Dcarie) to Sherbrooke St. West (rue Sherbrooke Ouest), exit 64. To get to Sir George Williams from exit 64: Drive east on Sherbrooke St. for 3.5 km and turn right onto Mackay St. (rue Mackay). Metered parking is available in the downtown core. There is a public parking lot in the J.W. McConnell Building. The entrance is on Mackay. To get to Loyola Campus from exit 64: Drive west on Sherbrooke St. for 2.7 km. You may find parking on the street, or use the university visitors' parking lot. By bus or subway The Berri-UQAM station is the final destination for all bus lines into the city. Upon arrival you may either take a taxi or take the mtro (subway), which is located below the bus station. Travel in the Angrignon direction (green line) and exit at the Guy-Concordia stop; you will have access to EV building from the metro exit. Contact us CIISE: 514-848-2424 ext. 5847 General enquiries reception@ciise.concordia.ca Graduate program enquiries graduate@ciise.concordia.ca Fax:  514-848-3171 Location CIISE General Information, 1515 Ste-Catherine Street West, EV 7.640 Montral, Qubec, Canada, H3G 2W1 Mailing address Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West,  EV 7.640 Montral, Qubec, Canada, H3G 1M8 Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
95docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services CIISE research is powered by cutting-edge equipment and computing facilities. Learn more about our three Research Labs. IT support (AITS) Contact us Computer Security Laboratory Leading research in information systems security Learn more Design Laboratory Enhancing designers' capacity for innovation & creativity Learn more Telecommunications Service Engineering Research Laboratory Services are the reason of next generation telecommunication networks. Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
96docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student Banking 101 Learn about the basics of student bank products and make the right choice November 26, 2014, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM The Financial Aid and Awards Office of Concordia University invites all current and future Concordia students to the  Student Banking 101  workshop. In this free workshop, you will learn about the basics of student bank products and will get tips that can help you choose the right products for you. These tips will help you save money and help foster a positive start to your credit history. How to sign up for Financial Literacy Week workshops Go to the  MyConcordia portal Click on Financial Aid and Awards in the left sidebar Click on Workshops Follow the instructions to reserve your place Where Room GM-230-18, Guy-Metro Building  (1550 De Maisonneuve W.), Sir George William Campus Cost This event is free Speakers Kathy Antonopoulos, Luiza-Elisabeta Tudor Organizer Atosa Tangestanifar Organization Financial Aid and Awards Office Website Financial Aid and Awards Office website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 7855 Category Workshops & seminars Export event Other Dates November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 November 28, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
97docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Get the flu shot Book your appointment today to protect yourself and others from the flu November 26, 2014, 9:00 AM – 3:30 PM The health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year. Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe. Flu vaccine clinics start November 18. Come by  Health Services  or drop by the weekly  Healthy YOU at CU information tables  to discuss your questions and concerns with a nurse or health promotion specialist. Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from  WebMD Check out the  Health Services flu clinic schedule ! Where Room AD-307, Administration Building  (7141 Sherbrooke W.), Loyola Campus Cost Free to those who meet the criteria Organization Health Services Website Health Services website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 5276 Category Other events Export event Other Dates November 18, 2014 November 19, 2014 November 21, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
98docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research As an interdisciplinary fundamental research & R&D learning institute, CIISE houses state-of-the-art research in innovative applications of information systems. Researchers Research Labs Research Laboratories CIISE has three affiliated  research laboratories . Our research is powered by cutting-edge equipment and computing facilities. Grants & Funding CIISE has received over 3.4 million research funding from  various sources , including NSERC, DND, NATEQ, Infrastructure Canada, MRST, PROMPT-Qubec, and Concordia University. Researchers by Topic: Information Systems Security Chadi Assi Mourad Debbabi Mohammad Mannan Lingyu Wang Amr Youssef Jeremy Clark System Engineering - Design Yong Zeng Anjali Awasthi Chun Wang Network, Telecommunication Engineering Chadi Assi Rachida Dssouli Roch Glitho System Engineering - Image Processing & Computer Graphics Nizar Bouguila Abdessamad Ben Hamza Systems Engineering Anjali Awasthi Jamal Bentahar Amin Hammad Andrea Schiffauerova Chun Wang Yong Zeng Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
99docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Graduate Certificate (Grad. Cert.) *Admission suspended for 2015-2016 Why pursue a graduate certificate in 3D Graphics & Game Development? The electronic entertainment industry has become one of the largest and fastest growing industries in Canada , and has a large representation in the Montreal area. The 3D Graphics and Game Development Certificate is designed for graduate students who wish to gain basic and advanced skills which will assist them in the development of software for computer graphics, multimedia, and games, and for employment in the electronic entertainment industry. Program details Degree requirements & curriculum Requirements for Completion: Credits.  A minimum of 16 credits. Courses.  Candidates in the graduate certificate program must take 16 credits of the following core courses: INSE 6510 Video Game Technology and Development COMP 6761 Advanced 3D Graphics for Game Programming INSE 6530 3D Graphics and Computer Animation for Game Design COMP 7661 Advanced Rendering and Animation for 3D Games Prerequisites Special Permission must be obtained from the Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering. Good Standing.  Students who have completed at least two courses will be assessed in June of each year. To be permitted to continue, students must have obtained a weighted cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of at least 3.00. Graduation.  To be eligible to graduate, students must have obtained a CGPA of at least 3.00. For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Admission requirements Admission Requirements The admission requirement will be a Bachelor of Engineering or Computer Science with a CGPA of at least 3.00 or equivalent, as well as knowledge in software engineering/development. The Institute will recommend on the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require the applicant to do specific remedial course work to meet the program requirements. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Download Brochure Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
100docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Master of Engineering (MEng) Why pursue a master's in quality systems engineering? The main intent of this program is twofold: First, the program is meant to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, expertise in cutting-edge technologies and best practices necessary for designing, modelling, analyzing, implementing and managing quality systems. Second, the program will put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in quality systems, lean engineering and supply chain management. Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the quality of systems, services, products and processes. Program details Program options & degree requirements Options Applicants to the Master of Engineering may apply to the  Industrial Experience option  in the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. Degree Requirements The requirements described here are in addition to the general degree requirements for the Masters programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. In order to graduate, students must have a CGPA of at least 3.00. Credits.  A fully qualified candidate is required to successfully complete a minimum of 45 credits. Additional credits may be required in some cases. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than eight credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credit must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Time Limit.  All work for this MEng degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (four years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (five years). Courses.  Students must take a total of 45 credits of course work at the 6000 or 7000 level, including a minimum of 36 credits chosen from the Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineerings graduate courses. The breakdown of the 45 credits is as follows: Twelve credits from core courses in topic area E68. Twenty-four credits from six courses selected from the program elective courses in topic areas E66, E67, E68, E69 and E70. Nine credits from any topic area from departments within the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. In Topic Area E63 students shall only take ENGR 6991 or INSE 6961 or ENCS 6931. Admission requirements Admission Requirements Applicants to the Master of/Magisteriate in Engineering in Quality Systems Engineering program must hold a bachelors degree or equivalent in: Mechanical Engineering Industrial Engineering Electrical Engineering Building Engineering Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Software Engineering Computer Science Any engineering or science discipline provided that the student has the appropriate background Admission to this program is competitive and only applicants with high academic standing will be considered. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be asked to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, in consultation with the Institute, is responsible for the recommendation of all applications for admission. Residence Requirements.  The minimum residence requirement for the Masters degree is three terms (one year) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum Sample classes Total Quality Methodologies in Engineering Advanced Statistical Approaches to Quality Total Quality Project Management Quality Assurance for Systems Engineering Quality in Supply Chain Design To see curriculum requirements, please visit section above on  degree requirements . For course list, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Related Links Sample Study Plan Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
101docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Doctorate (PhD) Why pursue a doctorate in information systems engineering? The academic aim of this Ph.D. program is to prepare students for leadership roles in the area of Information and Systems Engineering (ISE) with the knowledge and skills to advance the discipline from the academic, research and practical standpoints. The Ph.D. program will prepare the students to address the current and future challenges in information and systems engineering such as designing, modeling, analyzing and managing complex systems, exploiting systems of systems, managing systems complexity, studying systems' attributes and understanding human factors in the system. The intent is also to prepare students to engage in independent and collaborative research in university, government and industrial contexts. During this educative process, doctoral students will participate in knowledge generation and improvement activities, research synthesis, and knowledge/technology transfer. See faculty research areas Program details Degree requirements Requirements for the Degree Credits.  A fully-qualified candidate entering the doctoral program with a masters degree is required to complete a minimum of 90 credits. A candidate admitted beyond the bachelors level is required to complete a minimum of 106 credits. Candidates admitted with a masters degree in a cognate discipline, or if they need additional knowledge in an area pertinent to their research, will, in general, be required to complete more than the minimum number of credits. Students may not credit any undergraduate equivalent course towards the requirements of a 90-credit or 106-credit PhD program without the permission of their supervisor and of the Graduate Program Director. Residence.  For candidates admitted with a masters degree, the minimum period of residence is two years of full-time study or the equivalent in part-time study. Part-time students may be required by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, upon the recommendation of the supervisory committee, to carry out a portion of their research on a full-time basis. Where a candidate has been admitted with a bachelors degree, the minimum period of residence is 36 months of full-time study after completion of the bachelors degree. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer credit for courses taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into their program. A course submitted for transfer credit must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Courses.  Students admitted on the basis of a masters degree will normally be required to complete a minimum of 12 credits in course work. A student admitted on the basis of a bachelors degree will normally be required to complete a minimum of 28 credits in course work. Students must also successfully complete the PhD seminar ENCS 8011 (2 credits). Each students program must be approved by a supervisory committee consisting of three members of faculty, including the students research supervisor. This supervisory committee will also arrange for the students comprehensive examination, the presentation of the doctoral research proposal, and thesis evaluation. Comprehensive Examination.  Students must take a comprehensive examination, ENCS 8501, which may be both written and oral. Normally the comprehensive examination is taken when course work has been completed and within 12 (24) months after the first registration as a full-time (part-time) student in a PhD program. Students will be assessed on the basis of written and oral examinations of fundamentals related to their field of research. The comprehensive examination will normally be administered by a committee (the Comprehensive Examination Committee) consisting of the supervisory committee, at least one member external to the candidates program and other members appointed at the discretion of the supervisory committee. Students who fail this examination are permitted to take it a second time in the following term. Students failing a second time are withdrawn from the program. Students should consult the program regarding specific examination procedures and requirements. Doctoral Research Proposal.  Upon successful completion of the comprehensive examination, students must pass the doctoral research proposal ENCS 8511 (6 credits), within 18 (36) months after the first registration as a full-time (part-time) student in a PhD program, before they are admitted to candidacy for the PhD degree. Students will be assessed on the basis of written and oral presentations that must include: (i) a critical review of previous work relevant to the subject of the thesis, and (ii) a detailed research plan of action and expected milestones. Students are required to defend their doctoral research proposal before a committee that will normally be comprised of the same members as the Comprehensive Examination Committee. Students must demonstrate the viability of their project and their capacity to undertake doctoral thesis research. The proposal may be accepted, returned for modifications, or rejected. The rejection of a proposal will result in the students withdrawal from the program. A student whose proposal is accepted will be admitted to candidacy for the PhD. Thesis.  Students are required to plan and carry out a suitable research, development, or design project, which leads to an advance in knowledge. The student must submit a thesis based upon this work and defend it in an oral examination. For purposes of registration, this work will be designated ENGR 8911 or COMP 8901: Doctoral Research and Thesis (70 credits). Theses will be examined by a committee consisting of the students supervisory committee, an external examiner, and other examiners as approved by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee and the Dean of Graduate Studies. Cross-Registration.  A student in the program wishing to take courses under the cross-registration scheme must first obtain approval of the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. (See Inter-University Agreement in  Graduate Registration  section). Time Limit.  All work for a doctoral degree must be completed within 18 terms (6 years) of full-time study or 24 terms (8 years) of part-time study from the time of original registration in the program. Admission requirements Admission Requirements.  To be considered for admission on a full-time basis, applicants normally must hold a masters degree or equivalent with high standing in engineering or computer science, or in a cognate discipline. Holders of bachelors degree will, in general, be considered for admission to a masters program only. After completion of a minimum of two terms of full-time study, they may, upon application, be considered by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee for admission to a PhD program. To be considered for admission on a part-time basis, applicants must hold a masters degree with high standing in engineering, computer science or a cognate discipline. Applicants should understand that admission is contingent not only upon a superior academic record, but also on the availability of a research supervisor, of relevant programs of study and research, as well as adequate laboratory and library facilities. Where applicable, an ability to write programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for appropriate courses. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum The twelve-credit course component for the PhD in Information and Systems Engineering is specified as follows: 4 credits (1 core course): INSE 6421 Systems Integration and Testing; 8 credits (2 elective courses): chosen from 6000 or 7000 numbered courses offered by the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science and approved by the thesis supervisor and graduate program director. For topic area course lists, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Faculty research interests CIISE produces a high level of multidisciplinary research activity. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of research projects sponsored by both industry and government agencies in various areas of research, classified as follows: systems engineering, software engineering, middleware, systems security, cryptography and data security, cyber forensics, incident handling, security evaluation, biometrics, communication networks, communication protocols, image processing, 3D graphics, computer vision, pattern recognition, design science, requirements engineering for product design, tele-geo-informatics, augmented reality, infrastructure and facilities management, project management, geographic information systems, statistics, supply chain management, quality management, e-business systems, decision support systems, RFID, operations research, optimization, and artificial intelligence. Research units & facilities Concordias  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science  offers modern, well equipped research laboratories and facilities for graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and other research personnel. The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering is an international centre of teaching and learning excellence established as a department within the Faculty. It promotes interdisciplinary research and development of information technologies in software and systems engineering. CIISE has three affiliated  research laboratories : Computer Security Laboratory Design Laboratory Telecommunications Service Engineering Research Laboratory Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Related documents PhD proposal information PhD seminar information PhD comprehensive exam information Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
102docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) Graduate Certificate (Grad. Cert.) Why pursue a graduate certificate in Service Engineering & Network Management? The Graduate Certificate in Service Engineering and Network Management is for qualified university graduates who wish to obtain a complete set of knowledge and expertise that is necessary to work in the area of telecommunication and enables students to acquire knowledge in the area of network management. This program can be completed in one year. Program details Degree requirements Requirements for Completion: Credits.  A minimum of 20 credits. Courses.  Candidates in the graduate certificate program must take 16 credits of core courses while the balance of 4 credits may be chosen from the elective list or other courses offered by the Institute or other ENCS departments. Good Standing.  Students who have completed at least two courses will be assessed in June of each year. To be permitted to continue, students must have obtained a weighted cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of at least 3.00. Graduation.  To be eligible to graduate, students must have obtained a CGPA of at least 3.00. Courses Core courses INSE 6120 Crypto-Protocol and Network Security ELEC 6861 Higher Layer Telecommunications Protocols INSE 7110 Value Added Service Engineering in Next Generation Networks INSE 7120 Advanced Network Management Electives INSE 6100 Advanced Java Platforms COMP 6471 Software Design Methodologies COEN 7311 Protocol Design and Validation COMP 7231 Distributed Computer Systems Prerequisites Special Permission must be obtained from the Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering. For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Admission requirements Admission Requirements The admission requirement will be a Bachelor of Engineering or Computer Science with a CGPA of at least 3.00 or equivalent as well as a good knowledge in software engineering/development. The Institute will recommend on the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require the applicant to do specific remedial course work to meet the program requirements. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Download Brochure Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
103docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Information Systems Security (MASc) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Information Systems Security (MASc) Master of Applied Science (MASc) Why pursue a master's in information systems security? The academic aim of this Master of Applied Science (M.A.Sc.) program is to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, cutting-edge technologies, expertise and best practices to be security architects capable of designing, implementing, analyzing and managing the security of real-life information systems. Second, the program will put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in information systems security. Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the security of information systems. Financial support may be provided by a thesis advisor in certain cases. This program has a  Co-op option . For details each student should contact his/her academic advisor. See faculty research areas Program details Degree requirements Degree requirements The requirements described here are in addition to the general degree requirements for the Masters programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. In order to graduate, students must have a CGPA of at least 3.00. Program of Study.  The student will follow the proposed course sequence. In addition, students have to consult with their supervisor for selecting a research topic. Students can enter this program as Co-op students. See  item 6. Thesis Credits.  A fully qualified candidate is required to successfully complete a minimum of 45 credits. Additional credits may be required in some cases. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than eight credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credit must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Time Limit.  All work for this MASc degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (four years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (five years). Courses.  Students must complete a minimum of 20 credits, including 16 credits of core courses (INSE 6110, INSE 6120, INSE 6130, and INSE 6140) and one 4-credit course as shown below: a course chosen from the topic area E69 Information Systems Security, approved by the students supervisor, or an INSE course, approved by the students supervisor and either the Graduate Program Director or the Director of the Institute. Thesis.  Students must complete a 25-credit thesis as part of their degree requirements. The thesis must represent the results of the students independent work after admission to the program. The proposed topic for the thesis, together with a brief statement outlining the proposed method of treatment, and the arrangement made for faculty supervision, must be approved by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. For purposes of registration, this work will be designated as INSE 8901. The thesis will be evaluated by the students supervisor(s), and at least two examiners appointed by Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, one of whom shall be external to the students department. Students have the option to do the thesis work within the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. The suggested schedule of the program is as follows: fall and winter terms will be dedicated to course work, followed by two or three terms for research and development in industry, culminating in one or two terms in the Institute for the writing and defence of the thesis. Each student in this case will have a supervisor from the Institute and a mentor from industry. The intellectual property will be managed according to the University policy. Admission requirements Admission requirements Applicants to the Master of/Magisteriate in Applied Science in Information Systems Security must hold a bachelors degree or equivalent in: Computer Engineering Software Engineering Computer Science Any engineering or science discipline provided that the student has a strong background in information systems Admission to the program is competitive and only applicants with high academic standing will be considered. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be asked to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, in consultation with the Institute, is responsible for the recommendation of all applications for admission. Residence requirements.  The minimum residence requirement for the Masters degree is three terms (one year) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study. Transfer from the Master of Engineering in Information Systems Security.  Students, in good standing, who have completed a minimum of 12 credits in the Master of Engineering in Information Systems Security, may apply for a transfer to the Master of Applied Science in Information Systems Security. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum To see curriculum requirements, please visit the section above on  curriculum requirements . For topic area course lists, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Faculty research interests CIISE produces a high level of multidisciplinary research activity. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of research projects sponsored by both industry and government agencies in various areas of research, classified as follows: systems engineering, software engineering, middleware, systems security, cryptography and data security, cyber forensics, incident handling, security evaluation, biometrics, communication networks, communication protocols, image processing, 3D graphics, computer vision, pattern recognition, design science, requirements engineering for product design, tele-geo-informatics, augmented reality, infrastructure and facilities management, project management, geographic information systems, statistics, supply chain management, quality management, e-business systems, decision support systems, RFID, operations research, optimization, and artificial intelligence. Research units & facilities Concordias  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science  offers modern, well equipped research laboratories and facilities for graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and other research personnel. The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering is an international centre of teaching and learning excellence established as a department within the Faculty. It promotes interdisciplinary research and development of information technologies in software and systems engineering. CIISE has three affiliated  research laboratories : Computer Security Laboratory Design Laboratory Telecommunications Service Engineering Research Laboratory Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
104docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Information Systems Security (MEng) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Information Systems Security (MEng) Master of Engineering (MEng) Why pursue a master's in information systems security? The academic aim of this Master of Engineering (M.Eng.) program is to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, cutting-edge technologies, expertise and best practices to be security architects capable of designing, implementing, analyzing and managing the security of real-life information systems. Second, the program will put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in information systems security. Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the security of information systems. Program details Program options & degree requirements Options Applicants to the Master of Engineering may apply to the  Industrial Experience option  in the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. Degree Requirements The requirements described here are in addition to the general degree requirements for the Masters programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. In order to graduate, students must have a CGPA of at least 3.00. Credits.  A fully qualified candidate is required to successfully complete a minimum of 45 credits. Additional credits may be required in some cases. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than eight credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credits must be appropriate to the students program study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Time Limit.  All work for this MEng degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (four years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (five years). Courses.  Students must take a total of 45 credits of course work at the 6000 or 7000 level. The breakdown of the 45 credits is as follows: Twenty credits of core courses (INSE 6110, 6120, 6130, 6140, 6150) from topic area E69. Twenty-five credits of 6000 or 7000 numbered courses from any topic area from departments within the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. Students shall only take one of the courses (INSE 6961, ENGR 6991, ENCS 6931) from topic area E63. Admission requirements Admission Requirements Applicants to the Master of/Magisteriate in Engineering in Quality Systems Engineering program must hold a bachelors degree or equivalent in: Mechanical Engineering Industrial Engineering Electrical Engineering Building Engineering Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Software Engineering Computer Science Any engineering or science discipline provided that the student has the appropriate background Admission to this program is competitive and only applicants with high academic standing will be considered. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be asked to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, in consultation with the Institute, is responsible for the recommendation of all applications for admission. Residence Requirements.  The minimum residence requirement for the Masters degree is three terms (one year) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum Sample classes Foundations of Cryptography Crypto-Protocol and Network Security Operating Systems Security Malware Defenses and Application Security Security Evaluation Methodologies To see curriculum requirements, please visit section above on  degree requirements . For course list, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Related Links Sample Study Plan Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
105docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Master of Applied Science (MASc) Why pursue a master's in quality systems engineering? The main intent of this program is twofold: First, the program is meant to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, expertise in cutting-edge technologies and best practices necessary for designing, modelling, analyzing, implementing and managing quality systems. Second, the program will put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in quality systems, lean engineering and supply chain management. Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the quality of systems, services, products and processes. This program has a  Co-op option . See faculty research areas Program details Degree requirements Degree Requirements The requirements described here are in addition to the general degree requirements for the Masters programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. In order to graduate, students must have a CGPA of at least 3.00. Program of Study.  The student will follow the proposed course sequence. In addition, students have to consult with their supervisor for selecting a research topic. Students can enter this program as Co-op students. See  item 6. Thesis Credits.  A fully qualified candidate is required to successfully complete a minimum of 45 credits. Additional credits may be required in some cases. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than eight credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credit must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Time Limit.  All work for this MASc degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (four years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (five years). Courses.  Students must take a total of 20 credits in course work. These include the three core courses specified in area E68 Quality Systems Engineering and two courses selected from the program elective courses in the topic areas E66, E67, E68, E69 and E70. The student may take a maximum of one elective course that is outside these topic areas, subject to the approval of the Graduate Program Director. Thesis.  Students must complete a 25-credit thesis as part of their degree requirements. The thesis must represent the results of the students independent work after admission to the program. The proposed topic for the thesis, together with a brief statement outlining the proposed method of treatment, and the arrangement made for faculty supervision, must be approved by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. For purposes of registration, this work will be designated as INSE 8901. The thesis will be evaluated by the students supervisor(s), and at least two examiners appointed by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, one of whom shall be external to the students department. Students have the option to do the thesis work within the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. The suggested schedule of the program is as follows: Fall and Winter terms will be dedicated to course work, followed by two or three terms for research and development in industry, culminating in one or two terms in the Institute for the writing and the defence of the thesis. Each student in this case will have a supervisor from the Institute and a mentor from industry. The intellectual property will be managed according to the University policy. Admission requirements Admission Requirements Applicants to the Master of/Magisteriate in Applied Science in Quality Systems Engineering program must hold a bachelors degree or equivalent in: Mechanical Engineering Industrial Engineering Electrical Engineering Building Engineering Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Software Engineering Computer Science Any engineering or science discipline provided that the student has the appropriate background Admission to this program is competitive and only applicants with high academic standing will be considered. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be asked to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, in consultation with the Institute, is responsible for the recommendation of all applications for admission. Residence Requirements.  The minimum residence requirement for the Masters degree is three terms (one year) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study. Transfer from the Master of Engineering in Quality Systems Engineering. Students, in good standing, who have completed a minimum of 12 credits in the Master of Engineering in Quality Systems Engineering, may apply for a transfer to the Master of Applied Science in Quality Systems Engineering. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum To see curriculum requirements, please visit the section above on  curriculum requirements . For topic area course lists, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Faculty research interests CIISE produces a high level of multidisciplinary research activity. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of research projects sponsored by both industry and government agencies in various areas of research, classified as follows: systems engineering, software engineering, middleware, systems security, cryptography and data security, cyber forensics, incident handling, security evaluation, biometrics, communication networks, communication protocols, image processing, 3D graphics, computer vision, pattern recognition, design science, requirements engineering for product design, tele-geo-informatics, augmented reality, infrastructure and facilities management, project management, geographic information systems, statistics, supply chain management, quality management, e-business systems, decision support systems, RFID, operations research, optimization, and artificial intelligence. Research units & facilities Concordias  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science  offers modern, well equipped research laboratories and facilities for graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and other research personnel. The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering is an international centre of teaching and learning excellence established as a department within the Faculty. It promotes interdisciplinary research and development of information technologies in software and systems engineering. CIISE has three affiliated  research laboratories : Computer Security Laboratory Design Laboratory Telecommunications Service Engineering Research Laboratory Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
106docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > About the Institute Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the Institute The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) is an interdisciplinary, fundamental research, R&D learning institute, housing state-of-the-art research in innovative applications of information systems to a wide range of areas, among them: Systems engineering Information systems security High-quality system engineering Communication software engineering Data mining Bioinformatics Digital forensics Embedded systems engineering Electronics Multimedia Aerospace Finance & banking Automotive Manufacturing Building & construction management History The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering offers only  graduate programs . The relevance and importance of information technology in systems engineering has been established in several credible studies. To a large and increasing extent, software intervenes either as an embedded component of systems or as a tool that is used in the design, management, and operation of modern systems. Clearly, information systems are emerging as the core common ground of an interdisciplinary cluster of knowledge and applications. It is therefore a logical step of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science at Concordia University to create a focus on interdisciplinary research activities based on information and systems technologies. Based on the philosophy of interdisciplinary research, the Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) was established in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science on June 1, 2002. Since then, CIISE has received over 3.4 million  research funding from various sources , including NSERC, DND, NATEQ, Infrastructure Canada, MRST, PROMPT-Qubec, and Concordia University, to conduct over 30 research projects in different areas. The objectives of CIISE are: To maintain and enhance interdisciplinary areas of research based on information technology. To become a national and international center of research excellence in engineering of software and systems. To train graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and other research personnel. To attract external research funding. To foster relationships with external and internal researchers with similar interests. Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering on Facebook Follow @ENCSConcordia Concordia Engineering on Flickr Related Links Message from the CIISE director News & Events Cspace for Faculty & Staff Contact us Graduate Program Enquiries Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
107docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > News & events > Seminars Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Seminars November 25, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing November 18, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 12, 2014 Invited Speaker: Social PaL: Finding Path Length Between Two People On a Social Network November 11, 2014 CANCELLED: Invited Speaker: SDN - A Double-Edged Sword to Network Security November 7, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Visual Tools for Interacting with Large Semantic Networks October 27, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Improving End-User Cybersecurity September 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Clinical trials in computer security - Report on a world-first proof-of-concept experiment July 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Sharing Threat Intelligence to Mitigate Cyber Attacks April 23, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: The Future of Web Authentication March 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: The Grand Challenge: Securing Cyber Space, a.k.a.: Finding Things That Go Bump in the Net" Show more news 2013 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2013 Location Denial Of Service As a Service-Asymmetrical Warfare At Its Finest Robert Masse, CEO:  Swift Identity Team Dec. 2, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Ibis: An Overlay Mix Network for Microblogging Dr. Ian Goldberg, University of Waterloo Nov. 21, 4:00 pm EV2.260 Piecewise Linear Integer Multicommodity Network Flow Problems Dr. Bernard Gendron, Universit de Montral Nov. 28, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Promoting the digital contents in the European Union Dr. Annie Blandin, Institut Mines-Tlcom/Tlcom Bretagne Oct 28, 4:00 pm EV3.309 New Exact and Heuristic Algorithms for the Multiple-Vehicle Production Routing Problem Dr. Jean-Francois Cordeau, HEC Montral Oct. 17, 4:00 pm EV3.309 How to Install a Backdoor in an International Cryptographic Standard: The "Finessing" of NIST's Dual_EC_DRBG Dr. Aleksander Essex, Western University Sept. 27, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Multicasting in Cognitive Radio Networks Dr. Ahmed E. Kamal, Iowa State University Sept. 25, 10:00 am EV3.309 Privacy-preserving record linkage: Overview, a taxonomy, and scalable techniques Dr. Peter Christen, Australian National University August 5, 1:30 pm EV3.309 Serious Games for Learning and Skills Training: Challenges and Opportunities Dr. Carrie Lui, James Cook University May 2, 4 pm EV3.309 Towards Dependable Software Systems Dr. Mohammad Zulkernine, Queen's University April 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Biological Analogies and Environmental Lead-User Insights as Sources of Ideas for Conceptual Design Dr. L. H. Shu, University of Toronto Feb. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 CIISE Guest Lecture 2013 Location Big Data and Privacy Dr. Noman Mohammed, McGill University Oct. 28, 10:30 am EV3.309 2012 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2012 Location Minimizing Greenhouse Emissions in Vehicle Routing Dr. Gilbert Laporte, HEC Montral Nov. 8, 4 pm EV3.309 Analyzing Commuter Train User Behavior: A Decision Framework for Access Mode and Station Choice Dr. Naveen Eluru, McGill University Oct. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 Sustainable Supply Chain: An Overview and Outlook Dr. Vedat Verter, McGill University Oct. 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Formal and Automatic Enforcement of Security Policies Dr. Mohamed Mejri, Laval University Sept. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Supplier Development with Six sigma Tools Mr. Mutair Kadiri, Honeywell Aerospace Sept. 13, 4 pm EV3.309 Mining Large-scale Streaming and Complex Data Sets Dr. Xiangliang Zhang, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) Aug. 3, 4 pm EV2.260 How to "carbon date" digital information? Dr. Jeremy Clark, Carleton University Mar. 8, 4 pm EV1.162 The use of automatically collected data for public transit planning in Montral Dr. Alfred Chu, Agence Mtropolitaine de Transport (AMT) Feb. 9, 4 pm EV3.309 Features for machinery monitoring by vibration survey Prof. Marc Thomas, cole de technologie suprieure (TS) Jan. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 2011 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2011 Location Congratulations on Graduation - What's Next? Mr. Sukhvinder Jutla, Pratt and Whitney Canada Nov. 10, 4 pm EV3.309 An Autonomic Future Internet with Essentially - Perfect Throughput and QoS Guarantees Prof. T.H. Szymanski, McMaster University Nov. 7, 1:30 pm Institut national de la recherche scientifique Striving for Excellence and World Class Performance Mr. Khaled Khattab, Benchmarking For Excellence Oct. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 System Engineering for a Low Cost/Light Weight HUMS Dr. Eric Bechhoefer, NRG Systems Sept. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Pursuing and Capturing Information Dr. Kahn, Royal Victoria Hospital Sept. 22 EV1.162 Malware Unmasked Mr. Chad Loeven, Sunbelt Technologies May 12, 4 pm EV3.309 Enforcing Security Policies Prof. Nadia Tawbi, Laval University May 5, 4 pm EV3.309 Clustering on graphs Dr. Pierre Hansen, GERAD and HEC Montral Mar. 31, 4 pm EV3.309 A PD Engineer's Response, from the Far Side of Quality Mr. Stephen P. Jones, Bombardier Aerospace Mar. 24, 4 pm EV3.309 Application of Six Sigma for Services Dr. Rajesh Kumar Tyagi, HEC Montreal Mar. 24, 3 pm EV3.309 Lean Management and Supply Management: Their Role in Green Practices and Performance Dr. Stephan Vachon, HEC Montreal Mar. 17,  4 pm EV3.309 Software Quality Engineering and Software Trustworthiness Dr. Witold Suryn, cole de Technologie Suprieure Mar. 10 (4pm EV3.309 Gaps, Research Challenges, and Solutions Dr. Ali Ghorbani, Dean, Faculty of Computer Science, University of New Brunswick Mar. 3, 3 pm EV3.309 Strategic Design for an Integrated and sustainable Forest Supply Chain Dr. Luc LeBel, Department of Forest and Wood sciences, Laval University Mar. 3, 4 pm EV3.309 Rare-Event Simulation: Challenges, Ideas, and Effective Tools Dr. Pierre L'Ecuyer, Universit de Montral Jan. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Current developments in decision-making techniques for condition based maintenance Dr. Soumaya Yacout, cole Polytechnique de Montral Jan. 13, 4 pm EV3.309 2010 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2010 Location A brief and partial tour of City Logistics Dr. Teodor Gabriel Crainic, UQAM Nov. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 Sustainable Mobility: Car sharing growth in Quebec Mr. Marco Viviani, Communauto Montreal Oct. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 The Use of AVL and APC Technologies in Public Transit Planning and Operations Dr. Ahmed M. El-Geneidy, McGill University Oct. 14, 4 pm EV3.309 Channel Returns Policies for Durable Products Dr. Saibal Ray, McGill University Sept. 30, 4 pm EV3.309 Storage Security in Cloud Computing Dr. Kui Ren, Illinois Institute of Technology Sept. 9, 3:30 pm EV2.309 Network Security Architecture and Management Dr. Franois Cosquer, Security CTO and Technology Strategist, Alcatel Lucent Enterprise, France Jul. 21 & 23, 3 pm EV3.309 Designing-in Quality to Engineered Products through Model-based "Design For Six Sigma (DFSS)" Dr. Chen Li, RIM May 21, 11 am EV1.162 Productivity Improvement in New Product Development Prof. Vince Thomson, McGill University May 6, 4 pm EV1.162 OLSR - Two different security aspects of Mobile Ad Hoc Networks Prof. Jean-Marc Robert, cole de Technologie Suprieur (ETS) April 8, 4 pm EV1.162 A New Multibase Number Representation and its Application to Elliptic and Hyperelliptic Cryptosystems Prof. Ali Miri, Ryerson University March 25, 2:30 pm EV3.309 Can Value Chain Optimization Help the Canadian Forest Products Industry? Prof. Sophie DAmours, CRC Tier I, Laval University March 25, 4 pm EV3.309 100 Side Channels and Nothing Worth Watching  Achieving Security in a White-Box World Mr. Phil Eisen, Cloakware's Core Technology Feb. 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Technology Adoption: An Evolutionary Approach Dr. Jorge Niosi, UQAM Jan. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 A DSL-Based Approach to Developing Pervasive Computing Applications Dr. Charles Consel, INRIA / University of Bordeaux Jan. 19, 2:30 pm EV3.309 Automated supply chain coordination based on OR and Agent technology Dr. Jean-Marc Frayret, cole Polytechnique de Montreal Jan. 14, 4 pm EV3.309 INCOSE 2010 Location INCOSE Webcasting Presentation: The Wymore Construct for Systems Engineering Mr. Mike Dee, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics Nov. 18, 6 pm EV2.301 INCOSE Webcasting Presentation: Problem Solving Mr. Dave Auda, Sr. Reliability/Systems Engineer Sept. 23, 6 pm EV9.221 Joint CIISE/INCOSE Web Seminar: Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) Student Car Projects Webcasting Presentation by Finger Lake INCOSE Chapter March 25, 6 pm EV2.184 Joint INCOSE/CIISE Distinguished Seminar: The Development of International Standards for Very Small Entities: Historical Perspectives, Achievements and Way Forward Dr. Claude Y Laporte, cole de technologie suprieure (ETS) Feb. 18, 6 pm EV2.184 Joint  INCOSE /CIISE Distinguished Seminar: Difference Between Project Management and Systems Engineering Mr. Michel Dion, PMP, Project Manager, Bell Helicopter, Mirabel Presentation slides Dec. 1, 6 pm EV3.309 2009 Seminars 2009 Location CIISE Distinguished Seminar: No Calm after the Storm: A Study of Modern Botnets Dr. Jos M. Fernandez, cole Polytechnique, Montreal, Canada Nov. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 Visualization-based Analysis of Quality Guillaume Langelier, Houari Sahraoui and Pierre Poulin DIRO, Universit de Montral Exploring the Evolution of Software Quality with Animated Visualization for Large-scale Software Systems Guillaume Langelier, Houari Sahraoui and Pierre Poulin, Universit de Montral Nov 12 INCOSE Webcasting:  Warranty Prediction during Product Development Marcos Esterman and Hee-Rak Kang, Industrial and Systems Engineering, Rochester Institute of Technology Nov. 12, 6 pm EV2.184 Why do Software Firms Fail? Capabilities, Competitive Actions and Firm Survival in the Software Industry from 1995 to 2007 Shanling Li, Desautels Faculty of Management, McGill University Jennifer Shang, Katz Graduate School of Business, University of Pittsburgh Sandra A. Slaughter, College of Management, Georgia Institute of Technology Oct. 29 Behavioral Web Services: Design, Implementation and Verification Dr. Jamal Bentahar, CIISE, Concorida University Oct. 1, 4 pm EV3.309 Network Security: Architecture and Management Dr. Franois Cosquer, CTO Security and Technology Strategist for the Alcatel-Lucent Enterprise Business Group These 2 lectures count as 4 signatures for the 1-credit seminar course (INSE 6961; ENGR 7011) for M.Eng. students. July 22 & 24, 3 pm EV3.309 Anonymizing Healthcare Data: A Case Study on the Blood Transfusion Service Mr. Noman Mohammed, Ph.D. candidate, Concorida University Received the best student paper award in ACM SIGKDD'09 June 19, 4 pm EV3.309 USAF System Engineering Assessment Model (AF SEAM) Mr. George Richard Freeman, Technical Director of the Air Force's Center for Systems Engineering, AF Institute of Technology May 21, 6 pm EV3.309 Mobile Blood Donation Registration Service: Security and Privacy Issues Dr. Patrick Hung, University of Ontario Institute of Technology May 14, 4 pm EV3.309 How to Apply Systems Engineering with SysML to a Parking Lot Management System Mr. Mike Lussier, Senior Advisory Tech Rep, IBM Canada Apr. 21, 7 pm EV3.309 Information session about American Society for Quality (ASQ) Mr. Eric Stern, CQA, senior member of the American Society for Quality, publicity co-chair Apr. 6, 4:30 pm EV2.184 Geometric Mesh Denoising Via Multivariate Kernel Diffusion Khaled Tarmissi Mar. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 Teleconferencing with the International Council on Systems Engineering: Finger Lakes Chapter Meeting (Guide to the Use of Units in Technical Documentation) Dr. Karl A. Sweitzer, Senior Staff Systems Engineer, ITT Space Systems Mar. 19, 6 pm EV3.309 Condition based maintenance using proportional hazards model Bairong Wu Mar. 19, 4 pm EV3.309 Scenes modeling and Classification using visual words Mukti Ghimire Mar. 12, 4 pm EV3.309 Attack Graph Compression Long Tao Mar. 6, 2 pm EV3.309 Automatic generation of videos and Cartoons Wentao Fan Mar. 5, 4 pm Quality of Spatial Information for Municipal Infrastructure Management BaoJin Hu Mar. 3, 1 pm EV9.221 Access Control on XML-based RFID Data Rakesh Saini Feb. 19, 4 pm EV3.309 Trust in multiagent systems Babak Khosravifar Feb. 5, 4 pm EV3.309 Simulatable Auditing in Microdata Release Li Deng Jan. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Preserving Privacy for Location-Based Services with Consecutive Queries Yiming Wang Jan. 22,  4 pm EV3.309 2008 Seminars 2008 Location A Novel Approach of Mining Write-Prints for Authorship Attribution in E-mail Forensics Farkhund Iqbal Nov. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Constructing Privacy-Preserving Intrusion Detection Alerts for Correlation and Retrieval Benwen Zhu Nov. 13, 4 pm EV11.119 Forward Analysis for WSTS: Completions Prof. Jean Goubault-Larrecql Oct. 29, 10 am EV3.309 ORCHIDS and Bad Weeds Prof. Jean Goubault-Larrecql Oct. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Privacy Protection for RFID Data Ming Cao Oct. 23, 4 pm EV11.119 Towards Efficient Over-encryption in Outsourced Databases Using Secret Sharing Shuai Liu Oct. 9, 4 pm EV3.309 Scaling Attack Graphs to Large Scale Networks Through Lossless Compression Tao Long Oct. 2, 4 pm EV3.309 A Systematic Framework for Product Design Innovation M. Maziar Gomrokchi Sept. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 A Systematic Framework for Product Design Innovation Shengji Yao Sept. 8, 4 pm EV3.309 Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
108docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > News & events > Seminars Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Seminars November 25, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing November 18, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 12, 2014 Invited Speaker: Social PaL: Finding Path Length Between Two People On a Social Network November 11, 2014 CANCELLED: Invited Speaker: SDN - A Double-Edged Sword to Network Security November 7, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Visual Tools for Interacting with Large Semantic Networks October 27, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Improving End-User Cybersecurity September 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Clinical trials in computer security - Report on a world-first proof-of-concept experiment July 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Sharing Threat Intelligence to Mitigate Cyber Attacks April 23, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: The Future of Web Authentication March 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: The Grand Challenge: Securing Cyber Space, a.k.a.: Finding Things That Go Bump in the Net" Show more news 2013 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2013 Location Denial Of Service As a Service-Asymmetrical Warfare At Its Finest Robert Masse, CEO:  Swift Identity Team Dec. 2, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Ibis: An Overlay Mix Network for Microblogging Dr. Ian Goldberg, University of Waterloo Nov. 21, 4:00 pm EV2.260 Piecewise Linear Integer Multicommodity Network Flow Problems Dr. Bernard Gendron, Universit de Montral Nov. 28, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Promoting the digital contents in the European Union Dr. Annie Blandin, Institut Mines-Tlcom/Tlcom Bretagne Oct 28, 4:00 pm EV3.309 New Exact and Heuristic Algorithms for the Multiple-Vehicle Production Routing Problem Dr. Jean-Francois Cordeau, HEC Montral Oct. 17, 4:00 pm EV3.309 How to Install a Backdoor in an International Cryptographic Standard: The "Finessing" of NIST's Dual_EC_DRBG Dr. Aleksander Essex, Western University Sept. 27, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Multicasting in Cognitive Radio Networks Dr. Ahmed E. Kamal, Iowa State University Sept. 25, 10:00 am EV3.309 Privacy-preserving record linkage: Overview, a taxonomy, and scalable techniques Dr. Peter Christen, Australian National University August 5, 1:30 pm EV3.309 Serious Games for Learning and Skills Training: Challenges and Opportunities Dr. Carrie Lui, James Cook University May 2, 4 pm EV3.309 Towards Dependable Software Systems Dr. Mohammad Zulkernine, Queen's University April 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Biological Analogies and Environmental Lead-User Insights as Sources of Ideas for Conceptual Design Dr. L. H. Shu, University of Toronto Feb. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 CIISE Guest Lecture 2013 Location Big Data and Privacy Dr. Noman Mohammed, McGill University Oct. 28, 10:30 am EV3.309 2012 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2012 Location Minimizing Greenhouse Emissions in Vehicle Routing Dr. Gilbert Laporte, HEC Montral Nov. 8, 4 pm EV3.309 Analyzing Commuter Train User Behavior: A Decision Framework for Access Mode and Station Choice Dr. Naveen Eluru, McGill University Oct. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 Sustainable Supply Chain: An Overview and Outlook Dr. Vedat Verter, McGill University Oct. 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Formal and Automatic Enforcement of Security Policies Dr. Mohamed Mejri, Laval University Sept. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Supplier Development with Six sigma Tools Mr. Mutair Kadiri, Honeywell Aerospace Sept. 13, 4 pm EV3.309 Mining Large-scale Streaming and Complex Data Sets Dr. Xiangliang Zhang, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) Aug. 3, 4 pm EV2.260 How to "carbon date" digital information? Dr. Jeremy Clark, Carleton University Mar. 8, 4 pm EV1.162 The use of automatically collected data for public transit planning in Montral Dr. Alfred Chu, Agence Mtropolitaine de Transport (AMT) Feb. 9, 4 pm EV3.309 Features for machinery monitoring by vibration survey Prof. Marc Thomas, cole de technologie suprieure (TS) Jan. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 2011 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2011 Location Congratulations on Graduation - What's Next? Mr. Sukhvinder Jutla, Pratt and Whitney Canada Nov. 10, 4 pm EV3.309 An Autonomic Future Internet with Essentially - Perfect Throughput and QoS Guarantees Prof. T.H. Szymanski, McMaster University Nov. 7, 1:30 pm Institut national de la recherche scientifique Striving for Excellence and World Class Performance Mr. Khaled Khattab, Benchmarking For Excellence Oct. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 System Engineering for a Low Cost/Light Weight HUMS Dr. Eric Bechhoefer, NRG Systems Sept. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Pursuing and Capturing Information Dr. Kahn, Royal Victoria Hospital Sept. 22 EV1.162 Malware Unmasked Mr. Chad Loeven, Sunbelt Technologies May 12, 4 pm EV3.309 Enforcing Security Policies Prof. Nadia Tawbi, Laval University May 5, 4 pm EV3.309 Clustering on graphs Dr. Pierre Hansen, GERAD and HEC Montral Mar. 31, 4 pm EV3.309 A PD Engineer's Response, from the Far Side of Quality Mr. Stephen P. Jones, Bombardier Aerospace Mar. 24, 4 pm EV3.309 Application of Six Sigma for Services Dr. Rajesh Kumar Tyagi, HEC Montreal Mar. 24, 3 pm EV3.309 Lean Management and Supply Management: Their Role in Green Practices and Performance Dr. Stephan Vachon, HEC Montreal Mar. 17,  4 pm EV3.309 Software Quality Engineering and Software Trustworthiness Dr. Witold Suryn, cole de Technologie Suprieure Mar. 10 (4pm EV3.309 Gaps, Research Challenges, and Solutions Dr. Ali Ghorbani, Dean, Faculty of Computer Science, University of New Brunswick Mar. 3, 3 pm EV3.309 Strategic Design for an Integrated and sustainable Forest Supply Chain Dr. Luc LeBel, Department of Forest and Wood sciences, Laval University Mar. 3, 4 pm EV3.309 Rare-Event Simulation: Challenges, Ideas, and Effective Tools Dr. Pierre L'Ecuyer, Universit de Montral Jan. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Current developments in decision-making techniques for condition based maintenance Dr. Soumaya Yacout, cole Polytechnique de Montral Jan. 13, 4 pm EV3.309 2010 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2010 Location A brief and partial tour of City Logistics Dr. Teodor Gabriel Crainic, UQAM Nov. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 Sustainable Mobility: Car sharing growth in Quebec Mr. Marco Viviani, Communauto Montreal Oct. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 The Use of AVL and APC Technologies in Public Transit Planning and Operations Dr. Ahmed M. El-Geneidy, McGill University Oct. 14, 4 pm EV3.309 Channel Returns Policies for Durable Products Dr. Saibal Ray, McGill University Sept. 30, 4 pm EV3.309 Storage Security in Cloud Computing Dr. Kui Ren, Illinois Institute of Technology Sept. 9, 3:30 pm EV2.309 Network Security Architecture and Management Dr. Franois Cosquer, Security CTO and Technology Strategist, Alcatel Lucent Enterprise, France Jul. 21 & 23, 3 pm EV3.309 Designing-in Quality to Engineered Products through Model-based "Design For Six Sigma (DFSS)" Dr. Chen Li, RIM May 21, 11 am EV1.162 Productivity Improvement in New Product Development Prof. Vince Thomson, McGill University May 6, 4 pm EV1.162 OLSR - Two different security aspects of Mobile Ad Hoc Networks Prof. Jean-Marc Robert, cole de Technologie Suprieur (ETS) April 8, 4 pm EV1.162 A New Multibase Number Representation and its Application to Elliptic and Hyperelliptic Cryptosystems Prof. Ali Miri, Ryerson University March 25, 2:30 pm EV3.309 Can Value Chain Optimization Help the Canadian Forest Products Industry? Prof. Sophie DAmours, CRC Tier I, Laval University March 25, 4 pm EV3.309 100 Side Channels and Nothing Worth Watching  Achieving Security in a White-Box World Mr. Phil Eisen, Cloakware's Core Technology Feb. 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Technology Adoption: An Evolutionary Approach Dr. Jorge Niosi, UQAM Jan. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 A DSL-Based Approach to Developing Pervasive Computing Applications Dr. Charles Consel, INRIA / University of Bordeaux Jan. 19, 2:30 pm EV3.309 Automated supply chain coordination based on OR and Agent technology Dr. Jean-Marc Frayret, cole Polytechnique de Montreal Jan. 14, 4 pm EV3.309 INCOSE 2010 Location INCOSE Webcasting Presentation: The Wymore Construct for Systems Engineering Mr. Mike Dee, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics Nov. 18, 6 pm EV2.301 INCOSE Webcasting Presentation: Problem Solving Mr. Dave Auda, Sr. Reliability/Systems Engineer Sept. 23, 6 pm EV9.221 Joint CIISE/INCOSE Web Seminar: Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) Student Car Projects Webcasting Presentation by Finger Lake INCOSE Chapter March 25, 6 pm EV2.184 Joint INCOSE/CIISE Distinguished Seminar: The Development of International Standards for Very Small Entities: Historical Perspectives, Achievements and Way Forward Dr. Claude Y Laporte, cole de technologie suprieure (ETS) Feb. 18, 6 pm EV2.184 Joint  INCOSE /CIISE Distinguished Seminar: Difference Between Project Management and Systems Engineering Mr. Michel Dion, PMP, Project Manager, Bell Helicopter, Mirabel Presentation slides Dec. 1, 6 pm EV3.309 2009 Seminars 2009 Location CIISE Distinguished Seminar: No Calm after the Storm: A Study of Modern Botnets Dr. Jos M. Fernandez, cole Polytechnique, Montreal, Canada Nov. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 Visualization-based Analysis of Quality Guillaume Langelier, Houari Sahraoui and Pierre Poulin DIRO, Universit de Montral Exploring the Evolution of Software Quality with Animated Visualization for Large-scale Software Systems Guillaume Langelier, Houari Sahraoui and Pierre Poulin, Universit de Montral Nov 12 INCOSE Webcasting:  Warranty Prediction during Product Development Marcos Esterman and Hee-Rak Kang, Industrial and Systems Engineering, Rochester Institute of Technology Nov. 12, 6 pm EV2.184 Why do Software Firms Fail? Capabilities, Competitive Actions and Firm Survival in the Software Industry from 1995 to 2007 Shanling Li, Desautels Faculty of Management, McGill University Jennifer Shang, Katz Graduate School of Business, University of Pittsburgh Sandra A. Slaughter, College of Management, Georgia Institute of Technology Oct. 29 Behavioral Web Services: Design, Implementation and Verification Dr. Jamal Bentahar, CIISE, Concorida University Oct. 1, 4 pm EV3.309 Network Security: Architecture and Management Dr. Franois Cosquer, CTO Security and Technology Strategist for the Alcatel-Lucent Enterprise Business Group These 2 lectures count as 4 signatures for the 1-credit seminar course (INSE 6961; ENGR 7011) for M.Eng. students. July 22 & 24, 3 pm EV3.309 Anonymizing Healthcare Data: A Case Study on the Blood Transfusion Service Mr. Noman Mohammed, Ph.D. candidate, Concorida University Received the best student paper award in ACM SIGKDD'09 June 19, 4 pm EV3.309 USAF System Engineering Assessment Model (AF SEAM) Mr. George Richard Freeman, Technical Director of the Air Force's Center for Systems Engineering, AF Institute of Technology May 21, 6 pm EV3.309 Mobile Blood Donation Registration Service: Security and Privacy Issues Dr. Patrick Hung, University of Ontario Institute of Technology May 14, 4 pm EV3.309 How to Apply Systems Engineering with SysML to a Parking Lot Management System Mr. Mike Lussier, Senior Advisory Tech Rep, IBM Canada Apr. 21, 7 pm EV3.309 Information session about American Society for Quality (ASQ) Mr. Eric Stern, CQA, senior member of the American Society for Quality, publicity co-chair Apr. 6, 4:30 pm EV2.184 Geometric Mesh Denoising Via Multivariate Kernel Diffusion Khaled Tarmissi Mar. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 Teleconferencing with the International Council on Systems Engineering: Finger Lakes Chapter Meeting (Guide to the Use of Units in Technical Documentation) Dr. Karl A. Sweitzer, Senior Staff Systems Engineer, ITT Space Systems Mar. 19, 6 pm EV3.309 Condition based maintenance using proportional hazards model Bairong Wu Mar. 19, 4 pm EV3.309 Scenes modeling and Classification using visual words Mukti Ghimire Mar. 12, 4 pm EV3.309 Attack Graph Compression Long Tao Mar. 6, 2 pm EV3.309 Automatic generation of videos and Cartoons Wentao Fan Mar. 5, 4 pm Quality of Spatial Information for Municipal Infrastructure Management BaoJin Hu Mar. 3, 1 pm EV9.221 Access Control on XML-based RFID Data Rakesh Saini Feb. 19, 4 pm EV3.309 Trust in multiagent systems Babak Khosravifar Feb. 5, 4 pm EV3.309 Simulatable Auditing in Microdata Release Li Deng Jan. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Preserving Privacy for Location-Based Services with Consecutive Queries Yiming Wang Jan. 22,  4 pm EV3.309 2008 Seminars 2008 Location A Novel Approach of Mining Write-Prints for Authorship Attribution in E-mail Forensics Farkhund Iqbal Nov. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Constructing Privacy-Preserving Intrusion Detection Alerts for Correlation and Retrieval Benwen Zhu Nov. 13, 4 pm EV11.119 Forward Analysis for WSTS: Completions Prof. Jean Goubault-Larrecql Oct. 29, 10 am EV3.309 ORCHIDS and Bad Weeds Prof. Jean Goubault-Larrecql Oct. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Privacy Protection for RFID Data Ming Cao Oct. 23, 4 pm EV11.119 Towards Efficient Over-encryption in Outsourced Databases Using Secret Sharing Shuai Liu Oct. 9, 4 pm EV3.309 Scaling Attack Graphs to Large Scale Networks Through Lossless Compression Tao Long Oct. 2, 4 pm EV3.309 A Systematic Framework for Product Design Innovation M. Maziar Gomrokchi Sept. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 A Systematic Framework for Product Design Innovation Shengji Yao Sept. 8, 4 pm EV3.309 Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
109docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > News & events > Notices Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Notices November 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry October 31, 2014 CIISE will host the 7th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security FPS2014 September 11, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - October 10, 2014: Geo-visual Analytics of Canada-U.S. Transborder Traffic Data September 2, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense - September 12, 2014: Impact of Funding on Scientific Output and Collaboration April 21, 2014 CIISE Prof on Heartbleed & Bitcoin February 4, 2014 CIISE research on Bitcoin February 4, 2014 ISE PhD Student Awarded NSERC CGS October 29, 2013 Three CIISE students received prestigious scholarships October 24, 2013 CIISE Student's Work Appeared on Slashdot October 24, 2013 CIISE-supervised Ph.D. received NSERC Postdoctoral Fellowship October 23, 2013 CIISE Ph.D. student on CTV October 22, 2013 CIISE students and supervisor awarded the Best Paper Award at IEEE NCA13 October 14, 2013 CIISE student and supervisor awarded the Best Paper Award at ARES 2013 June 7, 2013 Appointment of Rachida Dssouli as director of CIISE October 23, 2012 BRAVO to our CIISE staff at Pumpkin Competition Show more news Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
110docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Student life Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student life Find out what's happening at CIISE and what the institute has to offer to graduate students.  Get involved  with your community. Current students Student & Professional Associations Campus services at Concordia Course registration, sequences, descriptions & advising Financial support Graduate Program Enquiries Drop-in Visit Times Meet with CIISE Graduate Program Coordinators Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays: 9:00 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. 2:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. CIISE Notices November 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry October 31, 2014 CIISE will host the 7th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security FPS’2014 Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS Alumni Chapter Group Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
111docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Current students Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Current students Key resources Concordia Class Schedule ENCS Class Schedule All ENCS labs schedules Door codes Course sequences Student Academic Services Student requests, readmission forms, transfer requests and more can all be found at SAS. Visit SAS now Forms Deadlines Graduate Program Requirements Expectations of Originality form : Form to be attached to assignments, projects, and reports for grading. Course registration form Drop and add form CIISE Seminar attendance form ISS M.A.Sc. checklist QSE M.A.Sc. checklist Sample Study Plan - ISS Sample Study Plan - QSE For important deadlines, please visit: Graduate Academic Dates Graduate Application Deadlines Convocation Critical stages and milestones to be achieved during your doctoral study in Information and Systems Engineering Requirements for the Master's program in Information Systems Security Quality Systems Engineering Co-op Frequently asked questions More | RSS Upcoming Defences November 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry September 11, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - October 10, 2014: Geo-visual Analytics of Canada-U.S. Transborder Traffic Data September 2, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense - September 12, 2014: Impact of Funding on Scientific Output and Collaboration Useful links MyConcordia Portal Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Undergraduate Calendar Graduate Calendar Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
112docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > About the Institute > Job opportunities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Job opportunities CIISE faculty and teaching positions Canada Research Chair Tier 1 position in the area of Cyber Security Assistant or Associate Professor in the area of Information Systems Security or Quality Systems Engineering ENCS faculty and teaching positions Strategic Hire - Sustainable Infrastructure for Communities in Cold Climates Mechanical & Industrial Engineering - Assistant or Associate Professor Canada Research Chair: CIISE - Cyber Security Strategic Hire - Computer Games and Virtual Worlds CIISE - Assistant Professor Assistant Professor, Software Engineering Strategic Hire - Interaction Design, Theory and Practice University Staff Opportunities FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & COMPUTER SCIENCEdocContentEnd
113docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > About the Institute > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time Faculty Part-time Faculty Affiliate Faculty Full-time Faculty Chadi Assi Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering Tier II Concordia Research Chair 514-848-2424, ext. 5799 S-EV 7635 chadi.assi@concordia.ca Anjali Awasthi Associate Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5622 S-EV 7636 anjali.awasthi@concordia.ca Ayda Basyouni Lecturer, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5621 S-EV 7648 abasyoun@ciise.concordia.ca Abdessamad Ben Hamza Associate Professor & Associate Director, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5383 S-EV 7631 hamza@ciise.concordia.ca Jamal Bentahar Associate Professor & Graduate Program Director, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5382 S-EV 7630 bentahar@ciise.concordia.ca Nizar Bouguila Associate Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5663 S-EV 7632 nizar.bouguila@concordia.ca Jeremy Clark Assistant Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5381 S-EV 6223 j.clark@concordia.ca Mourad Debbabi Professor & Tier I Concordia Research Chair, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3166 S-EV 14185 mourad.debbabi@concordia.ca Rachida Dssouli Professor & Director, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4162 S-EV 6225 rachida.dssouli@concordia.ca Roch Glitho 514-848-2424, ext. 5846 S-EV 6227 roch.glitho@concordia.ca Amin Hammad Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5800 S-EV 7634 amin.hammad@concordia.ca Mohammad Mannan Assistant Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8972 S-EV 6221 m.mannan@concordia.ca Andrea Schiffauerova Assistant Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3307 S-EV 7628 andrea.schiffauerova@concordia.ca Chun Wang Associate Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5628 S-EV 7629 chun.wang@concordia.ca Lingyu Wang Associate Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5662 S-EV 7637 lingyu.wang@concordia.ca Amr Youssef Professor & Graduate Program Director, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5441 S-EV 7638 amr.youssef@concordia.ca Yong Zeng Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5801 S-EV 7633 yong.zeng@concordia.ca Part-time Faculty Patrick Boismenu Gordon Leonard Affiliate Faculty Name/Title E-mail/Phone Research interests Prabir Bhattacharya Affiliate Professor prabir@ciise.concordia.ca Computer vision Image processing Biometrics Multimedia secure communications Digital watermarking Intelligent control Soft computing Sensor fusion Franois Cosquer Affiliate Associate Professor cosquer@ciise.concordia.ca Stphane Cot Affiliate Associate Professor stephane.cote@bentley.com Nol Crespi Benjamin Fung Affiliate Associate Professor fung@ciise.concordia.ca Data mining & databases Text mining Data security & privacy Authorship analysis Services computing Malware analysis Maurice Khabbaz Ruixuan Li Affiliate Professor rxli@hust.edu.cn 86-27-8754-4285+ System security Distributed systems Clound computing Social network Information retrieval Data mining Simon Li Affiliate Associate Professor lisimon@ciise.concordia.ca Hadi Otrok Martin Maier Affiliate Associate Professor martin.maier@emt.inrs.ca 514-875-1266#3043 Rseaux optiques du futur Makan Pourzandi Affiliate Associate Professor pourzand@ciise.concordia.ca Security High availability Distributed systems Cluster security Cluster computing Parallel computing Khaled Shaban Samir Sebbah Affiliate Assistant Professor samir.sebbah@forces.gc.ca M. Adel Serhani Affiliate Assistant Professor serhanim@uaeu.ac.ae QoS management in SOA Web Services and Mobile Web Services Cloud Computing Mobile Sensing for E-health Social Network Mobile and Ad Hoc Networks Zhigang Tian Affiliate Associate Professor tian@ciise.concordia.ca Prognostics Condition based maintenance Reliability Renewable energy systems Condition monitoring Signal processing Finite element modeling Optimization Andrew Vallerand Affiliate Associate Professor andrew.vallerand@drdc-rddc.gc.ca Fayi Zhou Affiliate Associate Professor fayi.zhou@edmonton.ca Media Relations Concordia's Experts guide for media Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
114docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > About the Institute > Staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Staff Dr. Rachida Dssouli Director Dr. A. Ben Hamza Associate Director Dr. Amr Youssef Graduate Program Director Dr. Jamal Bentahar Graduate Program Director Rima Baroudi, Office Assistant Title Office Assistant Room: EV7.640 Phone: (+1) 514-848-2424 ext: 5847 Fax: (+1) 514-848-3171 E-mail: rima@ciise.concordia.ca Nina Dunn, Department Administrator Title Department Administrator Room: EV7.643 Phone: (+1) 514-848-2424 ext: 3180 Fax: (+1) 514-848-3171 E-mail: departmental-administrator@ciise.concordia.ca Duties: Office management Departmental policies and procedures Budget Recruitment Card access Coordination of events Promotional materials Lilia Pernatozzi, Assistant to the Director Title Assistant to the Director Room: EV7.644 Phone: (+1) 514-848-2424 ext: 8529 Fax: (+1) 514-848-3171 E-mail: lilia@ciise.concordia.ca Silvie Pasquarelli, Graduate Program Coordinator Title Graduate Program Coordinator Room: EV7.641 Phone: (+1) 514-848-2424 ext: 5367 Fax: (+1) 514-848-3171 E-mail: graduate@ciise.concordia.ca Duties: Administrative support for graduate programs Graduate promotional materials Mireille Wahba, Graduate Program Coordinator Title Graduate Program Coordinator Room: EV7.639 Phone: (+1) 514-848-2424 ext: 2418 Fax: (+1) 514-848-3171 E-mail: graduate@ciise.concordia.ca Duties: Administrative support for graduate programs Graduate promotional materials CIISE Location Graduate Program Enquiries Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
115docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering Posted on November 18, 2014 | Source:  Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Dr. Vincent Morency Senior Manager, Metropolitan Transportation Agency (AMT) Thursday, November 20, 4:00 p.m. Room EV003.309 Abstract This talk will address the subject of planning and developing technology for public transit. I will begin with an introduction on transit ITS followed by its deployment status in Canada. A regional ITS architecture for Greater Montreal will be provided followed by systems engineering perspective on a major infrastructure project with application for the Pie-IX BRT. Biography Vincent obtained his degree in Electrical Engineering from McGill University in 1998 and his Masters degree in Management Science from the University of British Columbia in 2000. He started his career as a business process optimization specialist and evolved to project management positions in the fields of transportation, electronics manufacturing, software development, and new product development at Nortel Networks, Canadian National Railways, and HME/ClearCom. Vincent joined AMT in 2011 as a Senior Manager in the Planning & Innovation group. AMT is a Qubec provincial government agency with a metropolitan vocation to plan, coordinate, integrate and promote public transport services in close cooperation with its regional partners. He has both responsibility for the management of transit infrastructure development projects and the planning and development of Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) initiatives. His team promotes ITS internally and regionally, as well as manages the early phases of systems engineering from feasibility studies to detailed requirements and high-level design. Contact For additional information, please contact: Dr. Mohammad Mannan 514-848-2424 ext. 8972 mmannan@ciise.concordia.ca Related Links See full list of CIISE seminars Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
116docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering Posted on November 25, 2014 | Source:  Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Dr. Baochun Li Professor, University of Toronto Friday, November 28, 3:30 p.m. Room EV002.184 Abstract It is customary in today's cloud computing and middlebox networking environments to process packets with vastly different amounts of resources of different types (e.g., CPU and network bandwidth). Fair scheduling with multiple resources allows each flow to receive a fair share of resources based on the principle of dominant resource fairness. Existing schemes for multi-resource fair scheduling, however, are expensive to implement at high speeds. Specifically, the time complexity to schedule a packet is O(log n), where n is the number of backlogged flows. In this talk, we present our recent work, published in ICNP 2013, on a new multi-resource fair scheduling scheme that requires only O(1) work to schedule a packet and is simple enough to implement in practice. The work represents the first multi-resource fair scheduling algorithm that is provably fair and highly efficient. Biography Baochun Li received his B.Engr. degree from the Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, China, in 1995 and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, in 1997 and 2000. Since 2000, he has been with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Toronto, where he is currently a Professor. He holds the Bell Canada Endowed Chair in Computer Engineering since August 2005. His research interests include large-scale distributed systems, cloud computing, peer-to-peer networks, applications of network coding, and wireless networks. Dr. Li has co-authored more than 280 research papers, with a total of more than 12000 citations, an H-index of 57 and an i10-index of 181 according to Google Scholar Citations. Dr. Li was the recipient of the IEEE Communications Society Leonard G. Abraham Award in the Field of Communications Systems in 2000. In 2009, he was a recipient of the Multimedia Communications Best Paper Award from the IEEE Communications Society, and a recipient of the University of Toronto McLean Award. He is a member of ACM and a Fellow of IEEE. Contact For additional information, please contact: Dr. Mohammad Mannan 514-848-2424 ext. 8972 mmannan@ciise.concordia.ca Related Links See full list of CIISE seminars Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
117docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn CIISE will host the 7th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security FPS2014 Nov 3-5, 2014 Posted on October 31, 2014 | Source:  Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) CIISE will host the 7th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security FPS2014, November 3-5, 2014. The conference will be held in Concordia's   EV building. The aim of this event is to discuss and exchange theoretical and practical ideas that address security issues in inter-connected systems. It aims to provide scientific presentations as well as to establish links, promote scientific collaboration, joint research programs, and student exchanges between institutions involved in this important and fast moving research field. For more information, visit the FPS'2014 site: conferences.telecom-bretagne.eu/fps/2014/ Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
118docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry A Closer look at the Procurement Process using System Dynamics Posted on November 14, 2014 Rema Sawan Thursday, November 27, 2014 at 10:00 Room EV001.162 You are invited to attend the following M.A.Sc. (Information Systems Security) thesis examination. Examining Committee Dr. J. Clark, Chair Dr. A. Schiffauerova, Supervisor Dr. A. Hammad, CIISE Examiner Dr. M. Kazemi-Zanjani, External Examiner (MIE) Abstract The aim of this research is to develop the Cost of Quality (COQ) model for the procurement process of the construction industry and establish a general course of action for minimizing quality costs. A case study in a large Canadian construction company was conducted and the use of the Prevention-Appraisal-Failure (PAF) approach for the COQ model of the procurement process was explored. In contrast to the conventional COQ analysis we take into account not only the internal quality costs within the company, but also the costs of its suppliers. Several different policies were designed and their effects on quality costs investigated through System Dynamics (SD) simulation. The findings suggest that Prevention costs should be increased to minimize failures. It was also found that Appraisal cost is quite high in the procurement process and should be reduced in order to minimize overall COQ. However, this strategy could increase failure occurrences thereby damaging a companys reputation. The possible reductions of Appraisal cost in the construction companies should thus be carefully considered. Graduate Program Coordinators For more information, contact  Silvie Pasquarelli  or  Mireille Wahba . Related Links See full list of defences Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
119docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Master Thesis Defense - October 10, 2014: Geo-visual Analytics of Canada-U.S. Transborder Traffic Data Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering Posted on September 11, 2014 | Source:  Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Ali Nejaty Jahromi Friday, October 10, 2014 at 13:00 Room EV003.309 You are invited to attend the following M.A.Sc. (Quality Systems Engineering) thesis examination. Examining Committee Dr. R. Glitho, Chair Dr. A. Hammad, Supervisor Dr. C. Wang, CIISE Examiner Dr. C. Alecsandru, External Examiner (BCEE) Abstract This research aims to investigate new geo-visual analytics methods and techniques for visually analyzing the large amount of historical and near real time geospatial and temporal traffic data at the border crossings between Canada and the U.S. Historical traffic-related time-series data are available from different agencies in both countries for at least the last four decades for different modes of transportation and different purposes. Supplementary historical and near real-time data about delays, weather conditions, and different types of alerts and conditions at the ports of entry can be used to analyze the decision processes behind changes in traffic patterns. The data are gathered, processed, and linked to a web-based Geographic Information System (GIS) that can be accessed by authorized users over the Internet using an intuitive graphical user interface (GUI) to support different types of queries. The resulting database and information system can be beneficial for understanding the impact of the different factors affecting delays at the ports of entry and the impacts of these delays on the decision-making of travelers, planners, and supply chain operators. Graduate Program Coordinators For more information, contact  Silvie Pasquarelli  or  Mireille Wahba . Related Links See full list of defences Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
120docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs CIISE offers a  doctoral program  in information and systems engineering and two master's programs in  information systems security  and  quality systems engineering    the first programs of their kind in Canada. Information & Systems Engineering (ISE) The academic aim of this Ph.D. program is to prepare students for leadership roles in the area of Information and Systems Engineering (ISE) with the knowledge and skills to advance the discipline from the academic, research and practical standpoints. The Ph.D. program will prepare the students to address the current and future challenges in information and systems engineering such as designing, modeling, analyzing and managing complex systems, exploiting systems of systems, managing systems complexity, studying systems' attributes and understanding human factors in the system. PhD in Information & Systems Engineering Information Systems Security Security of information systems raises numerous open legal and ethical issues that are currently being addressed at both the academic and industrial levels.  Many of these issues raise some clear conflicts between global versus national interests as well as government versus public interests. You will be introduced to issues such as  IT security ethics , privacy, digital copyright,  licensing IT security products , import and export control regulations, computer fraud and abuse,  computer crime control , national and international criminal codes, incident handling,  infrastructure protection and espionage laws , privacy laws, business records, digital forensics. MASc in Information Systems Security MEng in Information Systems Security Quality Systems Engineering Get prepared with the skills, knowledge, expertise in cutting-edge technologies and best practices necessary for designing, modelling, analyzing, implementing and managing  quality systems . Our programs put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in quality systems,  lean engineering  and  supply chain management . Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the quality of systems, services, products and processes. MASc in Quality Systems Engineering MEng in Quality Systems Engineering Service Engineering & Network Management Obtain a complete set of knowledge and expertise that is necessary to work in the area of telecommunication and enables students to acquire knowledge in the area of network management. Learn more about this Graduate Certificate Degrees Ph.D program Information & Systems Engineering Master's programs Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Graduate certificate program Service Engineering &  Network Management Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
121docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Research > Funding & grants Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Funding & grants CIISE has received over 3.4 million  research  funding to conduct a large variety of interdisciplinary research projects. Grant Agencies Discovery grant from Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) Collaborative R&D grant from Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) Equipment grant from Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) "Jeune Chercheurs" grant from Fonds Qubcois de la Recherche sur la Nature et les Technologies (FQRNT) Team grant from Fonds Qubcois de la Recherche sur la Nature et les Technologies (FQRNT) Government Information and Knowledge Management Section, Defence Research and Development Canada, Valcartier Decision Support Systems Section, Defence Research and Development Canada, Valcartier Synthetic Environments Section, Defence Research and Development Canada, Ottawa Industry Alcatel, Ottawa, Canada Ericsson Canada Bell University Laboratories, Montreal, Canada Fujitsu, Montreal, Canada Panasonic Information and Network Technologies Laboratory, Princeton, New Jersey, USA Synergetic Research and Innovation in Aerospace / Le Consortium de recherche et d'innovation en arospatiale au Qubec (CRIAQ) , Montreal, Quebec Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
122docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Research > Researchers Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Researchers Chadi Assi, Ph.D. Wireless networks Information security Anjali Awasthi, Ph.D. City Logistics Intelligent Transportation Systems Quality assurance in supply chain management IT & Decision making Sustainable Supply Chain Management Abdessamad Ben Hamza, Ph.D. Image Processing Computer Graphics Multimedia Security Medical Imaging Statistical Quality Control Jamal Bentahar, Ph.D. Intelligent agents and multi-agent systems Agent-based software engineering Multi-agent interaction, dialogue and argumentation Formal methods Validation and automatic verification Non-classical logics Temporal and spatial reasoning Decision theory Artificial intelligence and knowledge representation Security in multi-agent systems Semantic Web and semantic grid computing Service computing Nizar Bouguila, Ph.D. Computer vision and pattern recognition Machine learning and data mining Image and signal processing Statistical process control 3D graphics and games Jeremy Clark, Ph.D. Anonymous Communication Bitcoin Cryptography & Data Security Genomic Privacy Multiparty Computation SSL/TLS and HTTPS Voting System Security Mourad Debbabi, Ph.D. Cyber Forensics Network Security Software Security Malware Analysis Program Analysis Software Engineering Systems Engineering Formal Semantics and Methods Verification and Validation Languages Design and Analysis Rachida Dssouli, Ph.D. Communication software engineering Quality assurance for software Service engineering Conformance testing based on FSM, EFSM and timed automata Requirement engineering based on scenarios Multimedia applications and QoS Roch Glitho, Ph.D. Architectures for end-user services in conventional networks (e.g. 3G/4G networks) Architectures for end-user services in challenged networks (e.g. mobile ad hoc networks, wireless sensor networks) Distributed systems (e.g. web services) Non-conventional networking (e.g. ambient networking, mobile ad hoc networking, wireless sensor networking) Networking technologies for emerging economies Amin Hammad, Ph.D. Telegeoinformatics Location-based computing Sustainable infrastructure lifecycle management Virtual reality urban simulation Geographic information system Mohammad Mannan, Ph.D. Authentication and systems security Privacy Social networking Trusted computing OS/Hypervisor security Phishing Android/Mobile security Andrea Schiffauerova, Ph.D. Innovation systems Management of science and technology Scientometrics Innovation networks Analysis of complex networks Open innovation Organizational innovation process Cost of quality Chun Wang, Ph.D. e-supply chain Algorithmic mechanism design, game theory Multi-agent systems Lingyu Wang, Ph.D. Security and Privacy Data privacy Vulnerability analysis Intrusion detection Security metrics Amr Youssef, Ph.D. Cryptography and network security Sequence design for FH-CDMA Software protection Information hiding Hardware  implementation of cryptographic algorithms Yong Zeng, Ph.D. Innovative and creative design Theory and methodology Cognitive experiments Computational technologies Related Links Research Labs Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
123docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News More latest news 11 new University Research Chairs embody Concordias numerous strengths October 15, 2014 Heartbleed and other cyber threats May 14, 2014 Cybercrime fighters September 18, 2013 Quality Systems Engineering for a quality career March 13, 2013 Filtering spam November 20, 2012 Sharing the knowledge on car sharing September 11, 2012 ENCS Notices November 24, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 21, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 26, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing October 31, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak November 26, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 21, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry More notices More | RSS Upcoming Defences November 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry September 11, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - October 10, 2014: Geo-visual Analytics of Canada-U.S. Transborder Traffic Data More | RSS CIISE Seminars November 25, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing November 18, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit More | RSS CIISE Notices November 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry October 31, 2014 CIISE will host the 7th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security FPS’2014 Events More events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
124docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Student life > Student & Professional Associations Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student & Professional Associations Concordia has various student associations whose membership consists of the graduate students of the Concordia University. These associations actively promote and represent graduate student interests to the university administration. Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association (ECSGA) All students of Concordia University registered as full-time or part-time Graduate students in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science shall be members of the ECSGA.  More about ECSGA Graduate Students Association (GSA) Representing the needs of all graduate students and ensuring your voice is present and effective within the University are of primary importance.  More about GSA Concordia International Students Association (CISA) CISA is dedicated to all students whether national or international. Their goal is to bring students together in a warm and friendly environment to learn, to share, and to laugh.  More about CISA Other Student Associations The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter  (CSCE:CSC) Women In Engineering (WIE) Concordia University Engineering and Computer Science Association  (ECA) Montreal-Quebec ITE Student Chapter Concordia Student Union Professional Associations Canadian Society for Civil Engineering  (CSCE) Association for the Advancement of Cost Engineering  (AACE) American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers  (ASHRAE) Ordre des ingnieurs du Quebec  (OIQ) The Canadian Council of Professional Engineers  (CCPE) Canadian Institute of Transportation Engineers  (CITE) Alumni Network - ENCS As a graduate of the Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science, you are a valued member of a network of over 15,000 alumni throughout the world. Staying connected to our alma mater brings many rewards, not least of which is the networking opportunity at our many events. You'd be surprised at the pace of positive developments at Concordia University, and your alumni chapter will keep you abreast of all the latest news.  Learn more Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
125docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact Get in touch 514-848-2424, ext. 3000 reception@cse.concordia.ca Find a CSSE faculty member Find a CSSE staff member Location 1515 St. Catherine St. W. Room  EV 3.139 Mailing address Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West, EV03.139 Montral, Qubec, Canada, H3G 1M8 Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
126docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition November 26, 2014, 10:00 AM – 3:00 PM English description is found below. Le Service Environnement, Sant et Scurit (ESS), en collaboration avec Fisher Scientific, vous convie  un forum en Sant & Scurit. Plusieurs fournisseurs de produits et services prsenteront leurs plus rcents quipements de scurit et rpondront  toutes questions touchant les meilleures pratiques de travail scuritaires dans les laboratoires, les studios et les ateliers. Trois confrences en franais seront offertes par des experts en la matire: Protection des Mains (11 h), Travail en Espaces Clos & Travail en Hauteur (13 h) et Protection Respiratoire (14 h). Cette exposition est gratuite et offerte  tous les membres de la communaut universitaire. Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S), in collaboration with Fisher Scientific, is hosting a Health & Safety Exhibition. Several suppliers will display their latest safety equipment and answer any questions concerning best safe work practices in laboratories, studios, and workshops. Experts will offer conferences  in French , namely on Hand Protection (11 a.m.), Confined Spaces and Fall Protection (1 p.m) and Respiratory Protection (2 p.m.). This exposition is free and open to all members of the university community. Where Room Atrium, Engineering and Visual Arts Complex  (1515 St. Catherine W.), Sir George William Campus Cost This event is free Organizer Daniel Pag Organization Environmental Health and Safety Website Environmental Health and Safety website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 4408 Category Workshops & seminars Export event CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
127docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Get the flu shot Book your appointment today to protect yourself and others from the flu November 26, 2014, 9:00 AM – 3:30 PM The health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year. Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe. Flu vaccine clinics start November 18. Come by  Health Services  or drop by the weekly  Healthy YOU at CU information tables  to discuss your questions and concerns with a nurse or health promotion specialist. Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from  WebMD Check out the  Health Services flu clinic schedule ! Where Room AD-307, Administration Building  (7141 Sherbrooke W.), Loyola Campus Cost Free to those who meet the criteria Organization Health Services Website Health Services website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 5276 Category Other events Export event Other Dates November 18, 2014 November 19, 2014 November 21, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
128docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Our 50+ faculty members, 600 graduate students and 1000+ undergraduate students comprise a thriving research community. Meet our faculty members See upcoming theses defences Explore research areas Research groups From Bioinformatics to Software Maintenance Combined, our faculty members receive over a million dollars in research grants from federal, provincial and industrial sources. Our students are highly involved in our thirteen research groups. See research groups Research Centre Centre for Pattern Recognition & Machine Intelligence CENPARMI is an international research centre that has developed techniques to recognize characters, time-varying signals, satellite pictures, objects, fingerprints, and weather patterns, military applications and much more. Learn more Industry sponsors Learn about our partners in industry Read more Funding & collaboration Learn about grants & funding See our visiting researchers Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
129docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Programs > Graduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Graduate programs Our department is one of the pioneers in Computer Science education and the largest in the nation. We train our students with care. PhD in Computer Science We have a dynamic doctoral program which trains students in  fundamentals and theory  or in  practical applications . Doctoral studies can be pursued in  several areas . A thesis based on this work must be submitted and defended in an oral examination. Learn more Master's degrees In our Department, we offer two types of Master's degrees in Computer Science and two in Software Engineering. One is based on  course work  preparing the students for broader knowledge and the other is  Thesis-based  which trains students more in depth on a chosen thesis topic. Thesis-based programs Master in Computer Science (MCompSc) Designed to provide students with an opportunity to strengthen their knowledge in a specific area of computer science in the broad sense, and to provide a significant introduction to research. This program will appeal primarily to students interested in full-time study. Learn more Master in Applied Science, Software Engineering (MASc) Designed to provide students with an opportunity to further their knowledge in a specific area of software engineering and to provide a significant introduction to research in software engineering. This program will appeal primarily to students interested in full-time study. Learn more Coursework-based programs Master of Engineering, Software Engineering (MEng) Provides a sound education in the theory and practice of software engineering, enabling graduates to work confidently with software engineering applications in industry and commerce. Also open to to candidates employed in industry or commerce who wish to study on a part-time basis. Learn more Master in Applied Computer Science (MApCompSc) Provides a sound education in the theory and applications of computing so that one can orient towards computer applications in industry and commerce. Open to candidates employed in industry or commerce who wish to study on a part-time basis. Program consists of only course work. Learn more Graduate diploma in Computer Science (GrDip) The Department of Computer Science offers a Diploma program for qualified university graduates from diverse backgrounds who wish to obtain expertise in Computer Science fundamentals. This one year Post Graduate Diploma program prepares students from other disciplines for graduate level work or for employment. Learn more Explore our research The department makes extensive use of the university's central computing systems and graduate students have access to a wide range of computing facilities and laboratories for: Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics Computer Graphics Computer Networks Databases and Information Systems Distributed Systems Human Computer Interfaces Large Scale Optimization Systems Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence Programming Languages Software Engineering Visualization Find out more about the department'  research groups and facilities . Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
130docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Programs > Undergraduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Undergraduate programs Our department offers two undergraduate degrees. Both programs are available in the  Co-op format ; the Computer Science program may also lead to an  Honours program . Bachelor of Engineering in Software Engineering (BEng) The BEng program consists of core courses in engineering, program courses attached to one of three available options and technical electives. Learn more Bachelor of Computer Science (BCompSci) <p">The BCompSci program consists of core courses in computer science, program courses attached to one of nine available options, and technical electives.docContentEnd
131docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > About the department Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the department Based in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, our department is one of the pioneers in Computer Science education and the largest in the nation. We train our students with care and provide financial support for Thesis students. Read our Chair's Message Teaching We offer  degree programs  in Computer Science as well as in Software Engineering. In addition to our many  undergraduate offerings , we offer two different  Masters Degree  programs are available. One is based on thesis work and the other entirely on course work. We have a dynamic  doctoral program  and a  Graduate Diploma program  geared for retraining graduates from other disciplines into computer science. We serve both full time and part-time student communities, and offer suitable financial assistance in the form of bursaries and sholarships. We are very proud of the unique orientation of our academic programs  practical and flexible with lasting foundational knowledge, matching well with the needs of todays information technology driven society. We have over 1000 undergraduate students and over 600 graduate students studying in our department. Research We have  37 full-time faculty members ,  several emeritus professors , as well as  affiliate professors  and  part-time faculty . The department is supported by a dedicated administrative staff team. Combined, our faculty members receive over a million dollars in research grants from federal, provincial and industrial sources.   Learn about our research . Facilities The computing facilities are broadly classified into teaching and research-oriented. The  teaching labs  are used by both undergraduate and graduate students for their course work. In addition, several  research groups and labs performing innovative and cutting-edge research  are housed in the new Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts Integrated Complex. Meet our faculty members Meet our staff Contact Us Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
132docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > News & events > Notices Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Notices November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 24, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak October 29, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Reem Alnanih October 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense: Nitin Prajapati October 1, 2014 Faculty Accolades - October September 16, 2014 Morgan Stanley Information Session @ Concordia University September 16, 2014 Morgan Stanley Presents: An interactive lecture by Bjarne Stroustrup on the essence of C++ programming language August 12, 2014 Cryptography: My Own Experience August 12, 2014 Algorithm Design for Map-Reduce July 16, 2014 Seminar:  Optimizing Energy and Bandwith in Mobile Streaming Systems July 14, 2014 Seminar:  Spreading Influence in Social Networks with Time Constraints July 4, 2014 Master thesis defense: Cathryn Supko July 2, 2014 Ph.D. student Jing Li wins award at the 11th IEEE International Conference on Services Computing July 2, 2014 Doctoral Student's Work Finds Innovative Application in Traditional Theatre Production in China Show more news Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter (CSCE:CSC) Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
133docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Student life Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student life Our department is a thriving place with committed students and many activities. Get involved today! Current students Student associations Current student FAQ Course schedules & sequences Get involved! List of student groups at Concordia Notices November 10, 2014 Notice to invigilators / Avis aux surveillants dexamen November 10, 2014 Shuttle bus GPS to be upgraded Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
134docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Current student resources Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Current student resources Undergraduate Course sequences Course descriptions Course schedules (ENCS) Graduate Course descriptions Course schedules (ENCS) PhD critical stages & milestones Labs CSE labs All ENCS lab schedules Door codes Support & services Campus services New student success Financial matters Registration, requests & forms Student requests, readmission forms, transfer requests and more can all be found at SAS. Visit SAS now Helpful contacts Undergraduate Program Assistant Vicki Tow S-EV 3.150, ext. 3042 Graduate Program Advisor Edwina Bowen S-EV 3.152, ext. 3043 Diploma Program Assistant Edwina Bowen S-EV 3.150, ext. 3042 Related topics TA evaluation Teaching labs Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
135docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > About the department > Job opportunities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Job opportunities Research, faculty and teaching positions Strategic Hire in Interaction Design, Theory and Practice Strategic Hire - Sustainable Infrastructure for Communities in Cold Climates Mechanical & Industrial Engineering - Assistant or Associate Professor Strategic Hire - Computer Games and Virtual Worlds Part-time teaching positions Please visit  Human Resources  for further information on part-time positions available for the upcoming Fall and Winter 2014-2015 semesters. TA positions Please make sure you are a member of the "cse-grad" email list to receive information and frequent updates about TA positions, COPTTA, and H&S deadlines and registration. To subscribe or unsubscribe, visit:  https://mail.encs.concordia.ca:444/mailman/listinfo/cse-grad Or, via email, send a message with subject or body 'help' to:  cse-grad-request@encs.concordia.ca You can reach the person managing the list at:  cse-grad-owner@encs.concordia.ca Applications Application for Fall 2014 TA and Marker positions is  now closed . Application for Fall 2014 TA and Marker positions is now closed. Information about Winter 2015 TA application will be announced during November 2014. Graduate students from Concordia's Computer Science and Software Engineering Department are invited to apply for our Teaching Assistant positions. You must be registered as a full-time or part-time student at Concordia during the semester for which you are applying for TA positions. Requirements for TA applicants All TA applicants must attend the Health & Safety workshop. If you have already done the workshop in a previous semester, you  do not  need to attend it again. In addition, all TA applicants are required to complete the COPTTA (Concordia Oral Proficiency Test for Teaching Assistants) English test. If you have already passed the test before, you  do not  need to re-take it. Info about both COPTTA and Health & Safety registration will be sent to the "cse-grad" email list in October. Please make sure you are already subscribed to this email list.  See how above . Only students who completed their Cegep or high-school here in Quebec in English or any other English institute in Canada are exempt from taking the COPTTA test. Please note that all applicants for tutor, lab demonstrator and programmers-on-duty positions (not marker) require completion of the TA Orientation/Health & Safety and COPTTA. The following are the only categories of students exempt from taking the COPTTA test: Marker applicants Students who have already passed COPTTA with a  score of 4 or higher Students who have completed at least 4 years of education in English in a Canadian school prior to starting their Bachelor's degree (i.e English high-school or cegep). The candidate must supply proof. Note that students who have studied in an  English school outside of Canada will still need to pass the COPTTA test . For any questions, please  email us . University staff opportunities FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & COMPUTER SCIENCEdocContentEnd
136docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > About the department > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time faculty Emeritus professors Part-time faculty Acemian, Nancy Bergler, Sabine Bui, Tien  D. Butler, Gregory Chvtal, Vclav  (Vaaek) Constantinides, Constantinos Desai, Bipin  C. Doedel, Eusebius  J. Eavis, Todd Fancott, Terry Fevens, Thomas  G. Goswami, Dhrubajyoti Grahne, Gsta Grogono, Peter Haarslev, Volker Hanna, Aiman Harutyunyan, Hovhannes Jaumard, Brigitte Jayakumar, Rajagopalan Klasa, Stan Kosseim, Leila Krzyzak, Adam Mudur, Sudhir Narayanan, Lata Ormandjieva, Olga Paquet, Joey Popa, Tiberiu Probst, David  K. Rigby, Peter Rilling, Juergen Shihab, Emad Shiri, Nematollaah Suen, Ching  Yee Tsantalis, Nikolaos Witte, Ren Yan, Yuhong Vangalur Alagar J. William Atwood David Ford Clement Lam Hon Fung Li Graham Martin John McKay Jaroslav Opatrny Thiruvengadam Radhakrishnan 2014 Last name First name Email Bergeron Nicolas nicolasbergeron@gmail.com Davis Donald Peter don@ece.concordia.ca El Gayar Neamat elgayar.neamat@gmail.com Ghaderpanah Seyed Sadegh sadegh@encs.concordia.ca Houari Nora nhouari@ucalgary.ca Jababo Khaled jababo@cs.concordia.ca jababo@yahoo.com Jannatpour Seyed Ali alij@encs.concordia.ca Joshi Suraj suraj.joshi@concordia.ca Kamthan Pankaj kamthan@cs.concordia.ca Kapadia Rohan Farrokh rohanfkapadia@gmail.com Kiaei Seyed Mohammad s_kiaei@ece.concordia.ca mkiaei@gmail.com Kratochvil Vaclav Mithun Shamima s_mithun@encs.concordia.ca Mokhov Serguei A serguei.mokhov@concordia.ca mokhov@encs.concordia.ca Obuchowicz Tadeusz ted@ece.concordia.ca Pitula Kristina Anna pitul_87@encs.concordia.ca Ranj Bar Amin a_ranj@encs.concordia.ca Santana Carlos-Luis santana@cs.concordia.ca Sinnig Daniel d_sinnig@encs.concordia.ca Sivagnanam Sutharsan suthar@gmail.com Soujeri Ebrahim esoujeri@encs.concordia.ca ebrahim@soujeri.org Taleb Mohamed mtaleb@encs.concordia.ca Thiel Stuart sthiel@cs.concordia.ca Titus Kerly titus@encs.concordia.ca Winikoff Steven M. smw@alcor.concordia.ca Zahirazami Shauheen shauheen@gmail.com Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
137docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > About the department > Administration & staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Administration & staff This team provides support to faculty members, faculty administrative committees, and assists students within the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering. Name Title Responsible for Office Phone Adugna, Hirut Office Assistant Receiving and redirecting visitors and students in person and on the phone; Coordinating departmental events S-EV 3.139 848-2424 ext: 3000 Bowen, Edwina Program Assistant, Diploma Providing initial assessment on all applications for the graduate programs. Processing graduate fellowships and awards S-EV 3.150 848-2424 ext: 3042 Joulani, Massy Department Administrator Managing the departments day to day operations and funds; Implement policies and procedures; Supervise administrative staff EV003.143 848-2424 ext: 7826 Monkiewicz, Halina Advisor, Graduate Programs Providing initial assessment on all M.Eng., M.A.Sc and PhD. applications. Advising graduate students on their academic progress and degree audit. S-EV 3.152 848-2424 ext: 3043 Tow, Vicki Program Assistant, Undergraduate Advising current student on their curriculum. Providing potential students with program information. EV003.144 848-2424 ext: 3053 Tzanetakos, Mary Assistant to the Chair Providing administrative support to the department Chair. Coordinating academic workload with the unit. Ensure critical CUPFA and CUFA deadlines are met. EV003.161 848-2424 ext: 3001 Yoganathan, Nimalan Coordinator, Laboratory Coordinating and organizing labs related to courses within the department. Recruiting and training tutors and markers. Managing department website S-EV 3.160 848-2424 ext: 3034 Related links Department location and main contact info Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
138docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services The department is located in the modern and state of the art  Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts Integrated Complex  at the heart of downtown Montreal. Our research facility is comprised of 44 computing laboratories used by our various  research groups ; the laboratories contain regularly updated computer systems, which provide a complete setting for our current and potential students as well as visitors to conduct research in a wide range of research fields. Teaching facilities Computing facilities for teaching in the department of Computer Science and Software Engineering are provided by the centralized IT services of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, namely Academic and Information Technology Services (AITS). Over  1600 PCs are integrated in a gigabit Network, in addition to a 16 terabyte  NAS file server, numerous "Services" and "Application" servers,  and a modern HPC Cluster with 464 compute cores and 128 visualization cores . For undergraduate teaching, the facilities are located in the Hall Building where our department uses over 21 different computer labs with a total capacity of  484 seats/PCs and over 10 project rooms  with 17 seats/PCs to experiment with security, software installation and evaluation, and implementation of device-drivers. For graduate teaching, there are about  300 desktops available in 26 computer labs  and 4 project rooms in the EV building. All systems are dual boot Linux/Windows(XP), with general Microsoft tools provided by the current Campus agreement and other special engineering applications (AutoCAD, Matlab, Rational Rose, etc) necessary to satisfy the teaching mission. The software is updated every term and the systems are monitored closely. Research facilities The department also has over  15 research laboratories with specialized hardware and software  to support research in different subdisciplines such as software engineering, mathematical computing, mobile computing, networks, image processing, computer vision, graphics, visualization, human computer interaction, gaming, artificial intelligence, databases, data mining etc. All the equipment is upgraded regularly; computers are usually less than 3 years old and are never more than 5 years old.  Learn more about research groups . Related links Full list of computer labs & project rooms Department labs supporting CSSE courses Related resources Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science facilities and services Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
139docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li Posted on November 27, 2014 | By: Jing Li Speaker: Jing Li Supervisor: Dr. Y. Yan Examining Committee: Drs. C. Constantinides, T. Eavis, A. Hamou-Lhadj Title: Full Solution Indexing for Top-K Web Service Composition Date: Thursday, November 27, 2014 Time: 11:40 Place: EV 3.309 Abstract More and more attention has been putting on web services with the technological innovation of computer, communication and network. With the advent of cloud computing, a significant number of web services are available on the Internet. An attractive advantage of service composition is: it fulfills complex tasks by combining different existing web services together. Unfortunately, optimizing service compositions is still a challenging area need to be addressed. The objective of this research project is to study QoS-aware service composition problem and solve it with a database. We propose a novel relational-database approach for the QoS-aware service composition problem. We generate possible service combinations beforehand and store them in a relational database. When a user request comes, our system composes SQL queries to search in the database and return K best QoS solutions. We test the performance of the proposed system with a web service challenge data set, it demonstrates that this system can always find top-K valid solutions to satisfy users non-functional requirements. Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
140docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi Posted on November 27, 2014 Speaker: Jehan Janbi Supervisor: Dr. C. Y. Suen Supervisory Committee: Drs. N. Dumont, P. Grogono, T. Kasvand Title: Arabic Fonts Similarity Analysis Based on Visual Characteristics Date: Thursday, November 27, 2014 Time: 10:15 Place: EV 3.309 ABSTRACT In desktop publishing design, a font is an essential component of each design. Font file contains several information that facilitates font manipulating such as font name, designer or date of issue. For design choices, the visual properties of a font are more meaningful than file properties and information. Therefore, in Latin fonts, to provide an option to deal with font based on its visual properties, PANOSE number is added to its information. It composed of 10 digits where each digit represents a fonts visual characteristics. To extend this system to cover Arabic fonts, similarity analysis for Naskh style fonts was conducted. The analysis has been conducted within two levels on 112 fonts, using 16 glyphs that contain all strokes that used to compose all Arabic characters. The first analysis was over fonts level to cluster them into groups in such a way that fonts in each group are similar to each other. While the second analysis has been done on a glyph level to determine which glyphs have more information about font design. The similarity matrixes for both analyses had been calculated by using font matching tools that support Unicode fonts to include Arabic characters Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
141docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak Posted on November 24, 2014 Speaker : Puspal Bhabak Supervisor : Dr. H. Harutyunyan Examining Committee : Drs. N. Hardy, L. Narayanan, J. Opatrny, P, Kropf, N. Bhuiyan (Chair) Title : Approximation Algorithms for Broadcasting in Simple Graphs with Intersecting Cycles Date : Monday, November 24, 2014 Time : 10:00 a.m. Place : EV 1.162 ABSTRACT Broadcasting is an information dissemination problem in a connected network in which one node, called the originator, must distribute a message to all other nodes by placing a series of calls along the communication lines of the network. Every time the informed nodes aid the originator in distributing the message. Finding the minimum broadcast time of any vertex in an arbitrary graph is NP-complete. The problem remains NP-Complete even for planar graphs of degree 3 and for a graph whose vertex set can be partitioned into a clique and an independent set. The best theoretical upper bound gives logarithmic approximation. It has been shown that the broadcast time cannot be approximated within a factor of 3  [. The polynomial time solvability is shown only for tree-like graphs; trees, unicyclic graphs, tree of cycles, necklace graphs and some graphs where the underlying graph is a clique; such as fully connected trees and tree of cliques. In this thesis we study the broadcast problem in different classes of graphs where cycles intersect in at least one vertex. First we consider broadcasting in a simple graph where several cycles have common paths and two intersecting vertices, called a k-path graph. We present a constant approximation algorithm to find the broadcast time of an arbitrary k-path graph. We also study the broadcast problem in a simple cactus graph called k-cycle graph where several cycles of arbitrary lengths are connected by a central vertex on one end. We design a constant approximation algorithm to find the broadcast time of an arbitrary k-cycle graph. Next we study the broadcast problem in a hypercube of trees for which we present a 2-approximation algorithm for any originator. We provide a linear algorithm to find the broadcast time in hypercube of trees with one tree. We extend the result for any arbitrary graph whose nodes contain trees and design a linear time constant approximation algorithm. Related Topics engineering computing Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
142docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs What is the difference between the software engineering & computer science fields? What makes our undergrad & grad programs in both fields unique? What kind of careers can you can expect in each?  Learn more . Undergraduate programs We offer two undergraduate degrees: a  Bachelor of Engineering in Software Engineering  and a  Bachelor of Computer Science . Both programs are available in the  Co-op format ; the Computer Science program may also lead to an  Honours  program. See programs Graduate programs Four  Masters Degree programs  are available in Computer Science and in Software Engineering, as well as a  graduate diploma program  and  dynamic doctoral program  in Computer Science. See programs On the job experience Both the BCompSci and BEng degrees are available as  co-op programs , which alternate work and study terms. Learn about Co-op Degrees Undergraduate Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) in Software Engineering Bachelor of Computer Science (BCompSci) Graduate PhD in  Computer Science Master in  Computer Science Master in  Applied Computer Science Master in Engineering  (Software Engineering) Master in Applied Science  (Software Engineering) Graduate Diploma in  Computer Science Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
143docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research > Research groups Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research groups 3D-Graphics The primary focus of research in this lab is the development of new, efficient and scalable computational techniques for 3D graphics and more generally for computing with visuals.  More about 3D Graphics . Bioinformatics Research in this area involves the design, evaluation, and implementation of algorithms, databases and systems in bioinformatics, including ontologies and the semantic web, user interfaces for bioinformatics tools and systems.  More about Bioinformatics . Computational Linguistics at Concordia The lab is interested in all aspects of Natural Language Processing: from theoretical research of linguistic phenomena such as coreference to the development of specific applications such as automatic summarizers or question-answering systems.  More about CLaC . Database Research Group The current areas of focus in database research are on modeling, languages, query processing and optimization and include, in random order, Semi-structured Data and XML, Data Warehousing, OLAP, and Data Mining, Logic Programming and Deductive Databases, Semantic Web, Digital Libraries, and much more.  More about the Database Research Group . Dependable Software Research Group The DSRG engages in theoretical and applied research in the areas of Software Engineering and Formal Methods - in particular, Software Requirements, Model Driven Design (MDD) and Module/Behavioral Interface Specification.  More about the DSRG . Human-Centered Software Engineering This multidisciplinary area of research involves researchers from computer science, psychology, communication and art. Major investigations include agent technology, cognitive and modeling; user interfaces design, user-centered development of interactive systems; user-oriented tests, usability evaluation; software and information visualization techniques.  More about HCSE research . Large Scale Optimization Systems The Large Scale Optimization Systems Laboratory focuses on optimization techniques aiming at solving large scale systems with operations research techniques (e.g., metaheuristics and decomposition techniques) arising in different engineering areas such as communication networks (e.g., network design, network provisioning, optical grid dimensioning) and industrial engineering (staff scheduling, train scheduling, reasoning under uncertainty in expert systems, clustering or data mining, optimization of multi-agent systems).  More about Large Scale Optimization Systems . Mathematical Computing and Visualization Research in this area includes algebraic and combinatorial computing, coding theory, computational algebra and computational number theory, combinatorial optimization, computational geometry, computational group theory, computer graphics, cryptography, numerical and nonlinear analysis, mathematical modeling, scientific and information visualization, visual computing, virtual environments.  More about Mathematical Computing and Visualization . Networks A wide range of topics are researched by a number of professors in this area. One set of topics is concerned with specification, validation and evaluation of communications protocols within computer networks. Other topics include routing algorithms for 3D ad-hoc networks, effect of network structure on network communications for parallel and distributed computing, error-correcting codes, cryptography and diagnosis of computer networks, mobile computing, WDM networks, wavelength assignment in optical networks and communication algorithms in networks. The principal researchers in this field are listed below. If you wish to read more about their research please visit their home pages. J.W. Atwood T. Fevens H. Harutyunyan B. Jaumard L. Narayanan J. Opatrny Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems This broad area of research has several subgroups of people working as research teams in areas such as: algorithms for parallel computing, wireless and distributed computing, protocols for secure multicasting and QoS signaling, network resiliency, distributed agent based architectures for fault tolerance and performance enhancement, pattern based parallel programming, predicate detection and slicing of distributed programs, object oriented parallel programming systems. The principal researchers in this field are listed below. If you wish to read more about their research please visit their home pages. D. Goswami R. Jayakumar H. F. Li D. K.Probst T. Radhakrishnan Software Engineering Both formal, empirical and practical software engineering research is currently going on in the following areas: requirements engineering, analysis, formal methods; object-oriented reusable software, software design patterns and architectures; software maintenance, comprehension and visualization; software measurement; software usability engineering, human factors in software development, developer-centric CASE tools, empirical studies; specification, verification and testing; reactive systems.The principal researchers in this field are listed below. If you wish to read more about their research please visit their home pages. V. Alagar P. Chalin P. Grogono O. Ormandjieva J. Paquet J. Rilling Software Maintenance and Evolution Research Group The group investigates problems with the object-oriented and aspect-oriented programs. Research groups Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics at Concordia (CLAC) Database Research Group (DBRG) Dependable Software Research Group (DSRG) Human Centred Software Engineering Computational Mathematics and Visualization Large Scale Optimization Systems Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems Software Engineering Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
144docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research > Industry sponsors Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Industry sponsors Canadian Pacific Railways Hoa Le Thai, a PhD student of Dr. Brigitte Jaumard, is the recent recipient of a BMP Industrial Innovation Scholarship. This scholarship will go towards funding Hoa's current Train Rescheduling research project for  Canadian Pacific Railways . The BMP Industrial Innovation Scholarships (IIS) Program, offered jointly by NSERC and the Fonds qubcois de la recherche sur la nature et les technologies (FQRNT),offers financial assistance to students enrolled in a Masters or Doctoral program and interested in undertaking research in natural sciences and engineering, through a university-business partnership. See further details about the BMP scholarship program . Vigilant Global In 2009, Montreal-based financial company,  Vigilant Global , announced their $20,000 donation in support of international CSE graduate scholarships. Co-founder Arvind Ramanathan, BComm 01, reported that about 25 percent of the company's employees are Concordia computer science graduates. "Financial markets are looking for people like you," Ramanathan said to the 25 computer science students on hand. Read further details about Vigilant Global's contribution to Concordia's CSE department . More partners Infosys Research in Motion Upclick Research Research groups Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics at Concordia (CLAC) Database Research Group (DBRG) Dependable Software Research Group (DSRG) Human Centred Software Engineering Computational Mathematics and Visualization Large Scale Optimization Systems Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems Software Engineering Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
145docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research > Research centre (CENPARMI) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research centre (CENPARMI) Introduction Pattern recognition and machine intelligence (PARMI) has been a very active field in the past 20 years, particularly in the application area. PARMI techniques have been used to recognize characters, time-varying signals, voice, satellite pictures, objects, fingerprints, and weather patterns, in many scientific, business, and military applications. In 1988, Concordia University established the Centre for Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence (CENPARMI) on the recommendation of its Senate and with the approval of its Board of Governors. CENPARMI was officially established as an international research centre in September 1988. The Centre is an administrative entity in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science which is becoming increasingly multi-disciplinary. The function "research, development and information exchange" has shown a growing and marked success that is reflected by the publication of a large number of books and papers, the training provided to many visitors and students, the importance of its research activities, its linkage with industry through collaborations and research contracts, as well as by funding from different agencies at both levels of governments. Members of this centre have been very active in the field of PARMI for 20 years. Started from a small nucleus of 2-3 people working in the areas of optical character recognition (OCR), document analysis and text processing, CENPARMI now has a strong group of professors from the Department of Computer Science of Concordia University, inter-university members from Ecole Polytechnique de Montreal and Ecole de Technologie Superieure, visitors from other universities, research staff and graduate students, with expertise in pattern recognition and image processing, parallel processing, computational linguistics, knowledge representation, machine intelligence and expert systems. Mission & objectives In the mid 1980's, this research group began to plan for the establishment of a research centre in the university, with the following mission and objectives in mind: Mission To promote advanced research and train highly-qualified personnel in pattern recognition and machine intelligence, and to strengthen interaction between universities and industries. Objectives To foster closer collaborations among active researchers in the area of PARMI at Concordia and other universities in Quebec. To disseminate knowledge acquired and to transfer technology to the industry for the economic and social well-being of Quebec and Canada. To establish firmly our national centre of excellence in PARMI and to pursue challenging problems which might benefit Quebec economically and socially, the following strategies have been adopted: To identify and explore projects which are sufficiently challenging and suitable for team research in the Centre in collaboration with the industry. To engage in projects of national strategic importance which capitalize on the strengths and interests of members of the Centre. To obtain funding from government agencies, industry and other organizations. To organize workshops, conferences, short courses and tutorials. To establish national and international exchange programs with other research institutions. To invite distinguished speakers and to organize seminars, to exchange research data, technical reports, publications, and experience. To increase the level of joint supervision of graduate students. The purpose of CENPARMI is to bring together people who have expertise and common interests, and to evolve so that the Centre can grow and maintain its stature as one of the world's leading centres in PARMI. Program description In 1972, faculty members of the Department of Computer Science at Concordia University had already started to conduct research in the field of PARMI. Under the directorship of Dr. C.Y. Suen, a world authority in optical character recognition, CENPARMI has attracted prominent researchers from other institutions. Currently, members of this centre are conducting advanced research and development on a variety of multi-disciplinary projects in the following areas: Handwriting recognition and signature verification Image analysis and document processing Combination of different types of features and classification techniques Application of multiple expert systems and neural networks Natural language processing Technological exchanges with industry constitute one of the principal components of CENPARMI. The wide scope of our research, coupled with the talents and expertise of our members and staff, provide a stimulating environment for us to accept new challenges in theoretical and experimental computer science and engineering. Researchers have the opportunity of conducting their work in a team to reach the common goals of the above proposed projects. They meet regularly in order to plan and discuss the progress and integration of research projects, supervise our graduate students either independently or jointly with other members, interact with our visiting scientists from other universities and industries, network with other researchers in the field, and conduct seminars within the team or in the institutes of our industrial collaborators like IBM at Yorktown Heights, IBM at San Jose, Philips, Bell Quebec and Matrox in the Montreal region, the Electrotechnical Laboratory and NTT (Nippon Telephone and Telegraph) of Japan, and in other institutions. Visit the  CENPARMI website  for more information. Research Research groups Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics at Concordia (CLAC) Database Research Group (DBRG) Dependable Software Research Group (DSRG) Human Centred Software Engineering Computational Mathematics and Visualization Large Scale Optimization Systems Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems Software Engineering Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Learn more Visit the CENPARMI website Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
146docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research > Grants & funding Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Grants & funding Undergraduate student funding Canadian Engineering Memorial Foundation Google Canada Anita Borg Memorial Scholarship Ho-Lin Mark Undergraduate Bursary Kevin O'Mara Memorial Bursary GE Foundation, Scholar-Leaders program in Canada See all Concordia undergraduate awards Undergraduate research Learn about Concordia research opportunities for undergraduate students. Graduate student funding Canadian Engineering Memorial Foundation Masters' scholarships Canadian Engineering Memorial Foundation Doctoral scholarships Vigilant Global Scholarship in Computer Science School of Graduate Studies See all Concordia graduate awards Research Research groups Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics at Concordia (CLAC) Database Research Group (DBRG) Dependable Software Research Group (DSRG) Human Centred Software Engineering Computational Mathematics and Visualization Large Scale Optimization Systems Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems Software Engineering Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
147docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research > Visiting researchers Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Visiting researchers Each year the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering welcomes visiting scientists and visiting post-doctoral fellows from around the world whose research makes an innovative contribution to our exiting research areas. The program provides visitors access to the associated research laboratories and university library. Visiting scientists and visiting post-doctoral fellows must be sponsored by a faculty member who will act as the research project supervisor. It is the responsibility of the potential visitor to contact appropriate faculty member and arrange for the sponsorship. Please refer to our  research groups  section to get more information about our current research activity. Research Research groups Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics at Concordia (CLAC) Database Research Group (DBRG) Dependable Software Research Group (DSRG) Human Centred Software Engineering Computational Mathematics and Visualization Large Scale Optimization Systems Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems Software Engineering Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Related content Research groups Affiliate professors Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
148docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News More latest news Convocation preview: 5 great grads, in numbers October 15, 2014 Thiruvengadam Radhakrishnan, a respected and admired leader October 15, 2014 The new student-developed app that could change the way you see your city May 28, 2014 Faculty Accolades, March 2014 March 14, 2014 Teaching Excellence and Staff Recognition Awards December 2, 2013 Summer 2013 Accolades August 21, 2013 ENCS Notices November 24, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 21, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 26, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing October 31, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak November 26, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 21, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry More notices Lecture series Theses Defenses CSE Notices November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 24, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak October 29, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Reem Alnanih Concordia-wide events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Student Banking 101 Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
149docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Student life > Student associations Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student associations Engineering and Computer Science Association (ECA) A student-run organization representing undergraduates in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. Go to the  ECA website . Other ENCS Student societies associated with the ECA include: Association for Computing Machinery Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society, Concordia University Student Chapter Software Engineering and Computer Science Society Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association (ECSGA) A student-run organization representing undergraduates in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. Go to the  ECSGA website . Other student associations The Concordia Student Union (CSU) The CSU represents all undergraduate students at Concordia. All undergraduate students pay CSU fees in order to support this student union. The CSU provides many services and programs, such as: Advocacy services; Free Handbook/Agenda; Reggies Student bar; Class Scheduling software; Health and Dental Insurance; Housing & Job bank; Co-op Used Bookstore. Visit the  CSU website  for more information. The Graduate Students Association (GSA) Graduate students who pay Graduate Student Association fees are members of this association. There is a lounge area, study space, computers, laser photocopier, television, printing services and financial support for conferences and special Initiated Projects. The GSA also organizes social events. Visit the  GSA website  for more information. Concordia International Students Association Run by and for international students as well as students with a strong interest in cultural diversity, helping international students adjust to life in Montreal, Canada and at Concordia. Visit the  CISA website Student clubs The Dean of Students Office is the principal resource for the interpretation and regulation of policies and procedures as these apply to the non-academic aspects of student life. All student groups and associations must register each academic year (starting June 1st) in order to have access to university services, such as booking privileges.  See a list of all clubs  or  find out how to start your own . Canadian University Software Engineering Conference Students who are passionate about Software Engineering, from across Canada and diverse concentrations, gather under one roof for three full days to learn from the worlds most famous and sought after software engineering speakers, researchers and professionals. Started by a small group of passionate software engineering students from Concordia University.  Visit the CUSEC website . Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
150docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > Courses > Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Honours Research Project ENGR 412      Honours Research Project  (3 credits) Prerequisite: ENCS 282; minimum 75 credits in the BEng program with a CGPA of 3.00 or better; permission of the Department. Students work on a research project in their area of concentration, selected in consultation with and conducted under the supervision of a faculty member of the Department. The students work must culminate in a final report, as well as an oral presentation. Students planning to register for this course should consult with the Department prior to term of planned registration. Intended for students with potential interest in graduate programs. NOTE: Must be approved by the Department prior to registration. See undergraduate calendar Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Additional Registration Information University Writing Test Requirement Student Academic Services (SAS) Undergraduate Class Schedule ENCS Course list Registration guide Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
151docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > Courses > Technical Report (ENGR 411) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Technical Report ENGR 411  is a one-credit project course set up to meet the special needs of certain students lacking one credit or less for graduation. Registration into this course requires the written permission from Students Academic Services (SAS) of the ENCS Faculty. Registration Process To apply for this course, please fill out the students section of the  Topic Approval-ENGR 411 . Please have your department's Undergraduate Program Director approve your topic and submit the original form to your departments Undergraduate Program Assistant. Please note that for Mechanical Engineering students, your topic should be related to your chosen option. For Industrial Engineering students, your topic should be an Industrial Engineering topic. Once everything has been approved you will receive a copy of the form for your records. This should also be bound with your final report. If you are denied registration for any reason, you will be notified. It is your responsibility to clearly provide your correct email address in order for us to keep in contact with you throughout the semester. General Requirements of the ENGR-411 Project Course The ENGR 411 report is not a supervised project however if you need assistance, feel free to contact any of our professors for help. The report should be approximately 20 pages, double spaced, typed using 12 point font with a cover page containing your Name, ID, Department, year and the term. The report will not be accepted, unless you include a signed copy of the  Confirmation of Originality Report  to ensure there is no plagiarism. The deadline for submission of the report is the last day of classes in the term you have registered for ENGR-411 . Failure to submit by the deadline can delay the grading and might result in the student not graduating in the intended term. The report will be graded by an assigned professor, usually based on your topic, for both its technical content and the format of report presentation. Therefore, pay attention to the style and format. Remember what you have learned in ENCS 282. Consult the guidelines from the Concordia Form and Style Guide. Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Additional Registration Information University Writing Test Requirement Student Academic Services (SAS) Undergraduate Class Schedule ENCS Course list Registration guide Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
152docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Faculty Research Profiles Deborah Dysart-Gale s research brings together her interests in intercultural communication, health communication and community development. She works primarily to improve health and social work communication in developing communities. Her recent interest is in applying health communication scholarship to ICT projects for social development. Govind Gopakumar s major research interest is related to infrastructures of cities such as technological networks of information, water supply, sewers, roads, bridges, and energy. He is particularly interested in investigating the dynamics of the interaction of global and urban/regional factors on processes of change in urban infrastructures in developing countries. His doctoral degree is in Science and Technology Studies from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Matthew Harsh  is interested in how new and emerging technologies can improve livelihoods in sub-Saharan Africa. An engineer and social scientist, he uses tools from sociology, public policy and economics to understand the forces that drive innovation and technological development, and that determine who benefits from technologies. He works mainly in Kenya and South Africa and has focused on new biotechnologies for agriculture (genetically-modified crops), nanotechnology, and computer science and information technologies. Ketra Schmitt  is interested in science, technology and public policy issues that have important risk-benefit tradeoffs. She develops methods and builds systems models to characterize and analyze risks and benefits as well as the associated uncertainty. Examples of her research include characterizing the economic impacts associated with terrorism and natural disasters and combining information from disparate health studies for environmental contaminants. Learn more about the faculty Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
153docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > About the Centre Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the Centre Mission Statement The Centre for Engineering in Society is part of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, and shares its commitment to educating engineers and computer scientists who exhibit the highest standards of professionalism and social responsibility in their practice. The Centres distinct contribution within the Faculty is teaching and research in technology from humanistic, social scientific, and interdisciplinary perspectives, broadening the scope of graduate and undergraduate education, and preparing students to take their place as citizens, researchers, innovators, and stewards of the public good. Vision Statement The Centre for Engineering in Society (CES) within the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science is committed to providing engineers with the skills to appreciate technology as an object of study, reflection and analysis within public life. The primary objective of CES is to develop undergraduate and graduate students communication skills, their moral imaginations, and understanding of the social foundations and impacts of technology.  In pursuit of this objective, CES teaches courses from humanistic and social scientific traditions in order to prepare students for professional practice and to broaden the scope of their education as both citizens and researchers.  In addition, CES takes an interdisciplinary approach to research in technology analysis, collaborating with faculty across the engineering disciplines on problems with significant policy and social dimensions, and pursues research projects with emphases on rhetoric, philosophy of science, economics, risk analysis, cultural studies of technology, global engineering and engineering public policy.  The goal of CES is to produce and reflect upon the engineer as citizen, entrepreneur, and rhetorician.  As citizens, engineers are part of a larger public, and thus their work implicates issues in the crafting of public policy, the development of nascent democracies, and the health and well being of communities. As entrepreneurs, engineers develop new ideas, propose and pursue innovation, plan and manage large-scale projects, and promote sustainable economic development. As rhetoricians, engineers employ communicative practices to shape public perceptions, to negotiate knowledge-claims, to explain the risks associated with technological development, and to be ethically accountable to society. Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
154docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > Courses Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Courses Undergraduate Our undergraduate courses prepare students to think and communicate as leaders in their professional practice. ENCS 272 Composition and Argumentation for Engineers (3 credits) This course develops skills in composition, argumentation and persuasive professional writing, especially for those students whose first language is not English. Note: Students who pass ENCS 272 with a C- or higher will fulfill the Faculty Writing Skills requirement, and will be eligible to enroll in ENCS 282. ENCS 282 Technical Writing and Communication (3 credits) This course introduces essential types of professional engineering communicationtechnical reports, abstracts, proposals, and scientific papers. It covers research and referencing methods for engineers and computer scientists. Students complete an oral presentation and a major report.  The course is open to students who have passed the Engineering Writing Test (EWT) or completed ENCS 272 with a satisfactory grade. ENGR 201 Professional Practice and Responsibility (1.5 credits) This course familiarizes students with the Professional Code and the Engineers Act, and Quebec and Canadian legislation for engineering projects. It covers health and safety issues such as safe work practices, general laboratory safety. It also provides a thorough discussion of professional engineering ethics. ENGR 392 Impact of Technology on Society (3 credits) This course explores the social history of technology, and sensitizes students to the social and environmental problems cause by unexpected effects of technology. Students examine the diffusion of innovation and public perception of engineering and engineering solutions. ENCS 393 Social and Ethical Dimensions of Information and Communication Technologies (3 credits) This course examines crucial questions in our information society: ethics, surveillance and privacy, economic globalization, intellectual property, the digital divide, computer-based profiling and hacking, electronic democracy, information productivity and the work/life balance. ENCS 411 Technical Report (3 credits) This is a one-credit project course set up to meet the special needs of certain students lacking one credit or less for graduation. Registration into this course requires the written permission from Students Academic Services (SAS) of the ENCS Faculty.  Find out more . ENCS 412 Honours Research Project (3 credits) Students work on a research project in their area of concentration, selected in consultation with and conducted under the supervision of a faculty member of the Department. The students work must culminate in a final report, as well as an oral presentation.  Find out more . ENCS 483 Innovation and Critical Thinking in Science and Technology (3 credits) This course examines thinking, arguing, and creativity in science and technology. It explores complex problems using theories from communication, business and psychology. Case studies of successful and failed innovations are presented. We examine the roles of experts and researchers in the diffusion of ideas, and the impact of diffusion on economics, media and society. For further information, see Section 71.60 of the Undergraduate Calendar. Graduate Our graduate courses help advanced students develop their professional and academic communication skills. ENCS 5721 Composition and Argumentation for Engineers (3 Credits) This course familiarizes graduate students with the conventions of academic writing. Topics include organization of  paragraphs and documents, abstracts, academic and professional writing styles, plagiarism and appropriate use of cited materials. ENCS 6041 Creativity, Innovation, and Critical Thinking (4 credits) This course examines thinking, arguing, and creativity from a theoretical and applied perspective. It explores complex problems using theories from communication, business and psychology. Students engage in a semester project that addresses an unmet need experienced by a specific group of users. ENCS 6721 Technical Writing and Research Methods for Engineers and Computer Scientists (3 Credits) In this course, students develop their written and spoken professional skills. The dual focus is on academic writing (e.g., research methods, organization and management of thesis and dissertation writing, creation of publishable articles) and professional communication in the industry (e.g., project proposals, executive summaries, technical reports). ENCS 6821 Development and Global Engineering (4 credits) This is an introductory course in international development and global engineering for graduate students. Topics  include evolution of development, globalization, development projects, planning and analysis, and participatory data gathering. For further information, see the  Graduate Calendar . Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Communication skills for all degree goals: Bachelor Technical writing, effective oral presentations MEng Writing for professional and client audiences; creating professional looking documents MSc Writing and research; designing your research question; organizing your thesis; literature reviews; avoiding plagiarism PhD Contributing to the discipline; utilizing library research; optimizing the writing process; writing research articles; responding to criticism Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
155docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > About the Centre > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time Faculty Professor Emeritus Nancy Acemian Senior Lecturer, Computer Science and Software Engineering Provost's Fellow for Digital & Blended Learning 514-848-2424, ext. 7830 S-EV 3153 nancy.acemian@concordia.ca Brandiff Caron Lecturer, Centre for Engineering in Society 514-848-2424, ext. 5130 S-EV 2249 brandiff.caron@concordia.ca Deborah Dysart-Gale Chair, Associate Professor, Centre for Engineering in Society 514-848-2424, ext. 5195 S-EV 2255 deborah.dysartgale@concordia.ca Ken Grimes Lecturer, Centre for Engineering in Society ken.grimes@concordia.ca Matthew Harsh Assistant Professor, Centre for Engineering in Society 514-848-2424, ext. 5982 S-EV 2247 matthew.harsh@concordia.ca Stuart James Macmillan Lecturer, Centre for Engineering in Society 514-848-2424, ext. 5447 S-EV 2253 stuart.macmillan@concordia.ca Ketra Schmitt Assistant Professor, Centre for Engineering in Society 514-848-2424, ext. 3843 S-GM 930-35 ketra.schmitt@concordia.ca Bernice Goldsmith Assistant Professor Emeritus, Centre for Engineering in Society Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
156docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > About the Centre > Staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Staff Name Title Location Phone Carol Williams Assistant to the Chair EV002.257 514-848-2424; ext. 5443 Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
157docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > Individualized program Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Individualized program The focus of research in CES is interdisciplinary in nature. Applications will be considered for doctoral studies under the Individualized Program (INDI) of the School of Graduate Studies. Exceptional cases will be considered also for the research based Master's program under INDI. Interested students are encouraged to send their detailed CV along with a short research proposal directly to the CES professor whose interests are most closely related to the student's proposed research. CES faculty are involved in an INDI Research Current in Global Engineering: Engineers and information scientists shape and are shaped by the social world in which they practice, and that world is becoming smaller and more interconnected. This observation opens a variety of research questions in the newly emerging field of global engineering. The major emphases of work in Global Engineering are in leadership studies and social entrepreneurship.  These two foci guide should guide student research, which may be focused on one or more of the following areas: Global competency: Communication skills; cross-cultural communication; management. Social impacts of technology: Equity; effects of technology on social, political, and cultural practices; ethics and practices of technological development aid. Globalization of technology: Function of multinational and international firms, international business and engineering codes, legislation, and regulation. Technology entrepreneurship: dissemination of technological innovation, team work, idea generation, creativity processes. The INDI Global Engineering currently invites students to explore questions bearing on the relationship between society and technology, and to prepare students to engage in ethical engineering and entrepreneurship practices in the service of a global community Participating faculty members: Deborah Dysart-Gale Govind Gopakumar Matthew Harsh Ketra Schmitt Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Registering for the Engineering Writing Test Register for the Engineering Writing Test online  (ENCS login required). Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
1docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact If you know who you're searching for at BCEE,  visit our staff page . Search in Concordia Directory BCEE Staff View larger map Contact us Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering: 514-848-2424 ext. 3200 Undergraduate program inquiries Graduate program inquiries Location 1515 St. Catherine W. Room  EV 6.139 Mailing address Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West EV-6.139 Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
2docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services Our department is home to state-of-the-art & one-of-a-kind  teaching  &  research  facilities in Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering. Teaching Labs Learn more about our Building Engineering, Civil Engineering & Environmental Engineering Teaching Labs. Explore our labs Research Labs Learn more about our department's Building Engineering, Civil Engineering & Environmental Engineering Research Labs. Learn more About our labs Aside from our  Teaching Labs  &  Research Labs , the department's fabrication shop provides the necessary resources to prepare special test samples or equipment for use in research. Instrumentation and calibration facilities are also provided, and a two-story prototype laboratory is available for full-scale assemblies needed in special research projects. The most recent realization is the Environmental Chamber in the  Building Envelope Performance Laboratory  designed to test new concepts in the performance of the building envelope. Lab Safety IT support (AITS) Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
3docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student Banking 101 Learn about the basics of student bank products and make the right choice November 26, 2014, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM The Financial Aid and Awards Office of Concordia University invites all current and future Concordia students to the  Student Banking 101  workshop. In this free workshop, you will learn about the basics of student bank products and will get tips that can help you choose the right products for you. These tips will help you save money and help foster a positive start to your credit history. How to sign up for Financial Literacy Week workshops Go to the  MyConcordia portal Click on Financial Aid and Awards in the left sidebar Click on Workshops Follow the instructions to reserve your place Where Room GM-230-18, Guy-Metro Building  (1550 De Maisonneuve W.), Sir George William Campus Cost This event is free Speakers Kathy Antonopoulos, Luiza-Elisabeta Tudor Organizer Atosa Tangestanifar Organization Financial Aid and Awards Office Website Financial Aid and Awards Office website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 7855 Category Workshops & seminars Export event Other Dates November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 November 28, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
4docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Get the flu shot Book your appointment today to protect yourself and others from the flu November 26, 2014, 9:00 AM – 3:30 PM The health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year. Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe. Flu vaccine clinics start November 18. Come by  Health Services  or drop by the weekly  Healthy YOU at CU information tables  to discuss your questions and concerns with a nurse or health promotion specialist. Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from  WebMD Check out the  Health Services flu clinic schedule ! Where Room AD-307, Administration Building  (7141 Sherbrooke W.), Loyola Campus Cost Free to those who meet the criteria Organization Health Services Website Health Services website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 5276 Category Other events Export event Other Dates November 18, 2014 November 19, 2014 November 21, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
5docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Our faculty undertake  leading edge research  in various areas of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering. Research centres Solar Buildings Research Network Interested in the design and development of net-zero energy buildings and communities? Read more Concordia Institute for Water, Energy and Sustainable Systems CIWESS trains students to be at the forefront of sustainable development practices. Read more Research labs Building Engineering Labs Civil Engineering Labs Environmental Engineering Labs Researchers Dr. Adel Hanna Professor Dr. Hanna's research area is Geotechnical Engineering. Learn more Dr. Catherine Mulligan Professor Dr. Mulligan is Concordia Research Chair in Geoenvironmental Sustainability (Tier I). Learn more Dr. Andreas K. Athienitis Professor Dr. Athienitis is Concordia Research Chair (Tier 1). His research area is Solar Energy Engineering and Energy Efficiency. Learn more Our Researchers Contact us Research areas Building Engineering Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
6docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs > Building Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Building Engineering What is Building Engineering? Building Engineers are concerned with the planning, design, construction, operation, renovation, and maintenance of buildings, as well as with their impacts on the surrounding environment.  Building Engineering , commonly known in the US as  Architectural Engineering , is an interdisciplinary program that integrates pertinent knowledge from different disciplines: Civil engineering  for building structures and foundation; Mechanical engineering for Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning system ( HVAC ), and for mechanical service systems; Electrical engineering for power distribution, control, and electrical systems; Physics for building science, lighting and acoustics. Chemistry and biology for  indoor air quality ; Architecture  for form, function, building codes and specifications; Economics for  project planning and scheduling . The building engineer explores all phases of the life cycle of a building and develops an appreciation of the building as an advanced technological system. Problems are identified and appropriate solutions found to improve the performance of the building in areas such as: Energy efficiency, passive solar engineering, lighting and acoustics; Indoor air quality; Construction management HVAC and  control systems Advanced building materials, building envelope Earthquake resistance, wind effects on buildings, computer-aided design. Why choose Building Engineering? Construction is a major industry in Canada, an important contributor to the economy amounting to 6% of Canada's GDP. According to Statistics Canada, over 7% of employed Canadians worked in the construction industry in 2010, an increase of 50.8% since 2000, when 806,900 people worked in construction. While there are many universities that offer Building/ Architectural  Engineering programs, Concordia's Building Engineering Program remains unique in Canada. The program is designed to meet the needs of the construction industry by providing engineers familiar with the overall design of built facilities as covered in the following areas. Building Indoor Environment Building Indoor Environment  covers the environmental aspects in the design, analysis and operation of energy-efficient, healthy and comfortable buildings. Fields of specialization include: thermal comfort, air quality, lighting, acoustics, HVAC and control systems. Building Science Building Science  focuses on the analysis and control of the physical phenomena affecting the performance of building materials and building enclosure systems. Construction Management Construction Management  includes construction techniques, construction processes, planning, scheduling; project tracking and control, labor and industrial relations, and legal issues in construction. Energy Efficiency Energy Efficiency  is also an application area which draws from the building science and building environment areas. It includes analysis, design, and control of energy-efficient buildings and HVAC systems,  solar energy  utilization and  intelligent buildings . Building Envelope Building Envelope  is an application area which draws from all areas of building engineering, especially building science and indoor environment. It focuses on the analysis and design of building envelopes, including durability, heat and moisture transfer and interaction with the indoor environment. Building Structure Building Structure  area concerns with the principles of structural mechanics, material Behavior and their applications to the analysis and design of steel, reinforced concrete and timber building structures. Fields of specialization include: wind and seismic effects on buildings. Computer Aided Engineering Computer Aided Engineering  is an exciting area in Engineering. Even though computers have become ubiquitous in the architecture-engineering-construction industry, their present use is mostly limited to drafting, analysis, member sizing, cost estimation, and construction management. Computers have tremendous untapped potentials in the field of Building Engineering. Career opportunities in Building Engineering The building engineer has a wide spectrum of knowledge about building systems and their individual components, and understands the building itself as a large integrated system. The building engineer may work as a consulting engineer, design engineer, project manager, construction manager, cost engineer, facility manager, conservation-utility director, HVAC engineer and operation manager, or a process engineer among other career possibilities. As a graduate of the building engineering program, you will be qualified for positions at companies specializing in the design, analysis, operation, construction, and management of a wide range of residential, commercial, and industrial building projects. Our graduates can be found at numerous companies and organizations in Montreal and elsewhere, including: Public Works Canada Racan Industries Concordia Physical plant Natural Resources Canada (CANMET) GES Technologies INPSEC-SOL Honeywell Keen Engineering Siemens Dessau-Soprin Kolostat Morrison Hershfield Patenaude Trempe Halsall SNC-Lavalin Peter Kiewit Sons Co. Tardif Murray & Associates Hatch & Associates EllisDon Corporation Revay & Associates Explore our programs Explore our programs Student Testimonials Related Links Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
7docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs > Graduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Graduate programs For students interested in work & study terms, our department's MEng programs are also offered in the  Co-op format . Graduate Certificate (Bldg) 16 credits of course work The Graduate Certificate in Building Engineering is designed for practicing engineers who wish to specialize in one or more of the following sub-disciplines within Building Engineering: Building Science Building Envelope Construction Management Energy Efficiency Building Environment Rehabilitation of Urban Infrastructure Facility Management Learn more Graduate Certificate (Environmental) 16 credits of course work The Graduate Certificate in Environmental Engineering is designed for practicing engineers who wish to specialize in one or more of the following subdisciplines in Environmental Engineering: Industrial Waste Management Environmental Auditing Modelling in Environmental Systems Learn more MEng program Designed to provide practicing engineers with an opportunity to strengthen and extend the knowledge they have obtained at the undergraduate level, to develop their design skills, and to enhance their ability to present technical material in written form. MEng (Bldg) 45 credits of course work Students will choose from the following course groups: Building Environment; Building Science; Building Structures; and Construction Management. The program also has an Industrial Experience Option. Learn more MEng (Civil) 45 credits of course work Students will choose from the following course groups: Environmental Engineering and Water Resources; Geotechnical and Transportation Engineering; Structural Engineering; and Construction Management. The program also has an Industrial Experience Option. Learn more MASc program Designed to provide students with an opportunity to strengthen, in some specific area or areas, the knowledge gained at the undergraduate level, and to provide a significant introduction to research. MASc (Bldg) 16 credits of course work plus 29-credits of  research  thesis Applicants to the MASc program should hold a bachelors degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Learn more MASc (Civil) 16 credits of course work plus 29-credits of  research  thesis. BCEE offers the research-oriented Master of Applied Science program (MASc) in Civil Engineering which includes Environmental Engineering as one of its major research areas. Learn more PhD program Leads to the highest degree offered by the Faculty and is designed to provide students an opportunity to obtain the greatest possible expertise in their chosen field through intensive research. PhD in  Building Engineering PhD in  Civil Engineering Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
8docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs > Undergraduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Undergraduate programs Both the BEng (Bldg) and BEng (Civil) programs are accredited by the  Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board  ( CEAB ) and are also offered in the  Co-op format . Building Engineering (BEng) Concordias Building Engineering program is the only one of its kind in Canada. In state-of-the-art labs designed for understanding building science, acoustics and lighting, engineering materials and solar energy, youll get practical experience with the tools and equipment you will use in the field. Learn more Civil Engineering (BEng) Protect water resources. Design buildings, bridges and tunnels. Improve transportation and traffic flow. As a civil engineer, your expertise in urban and environmental planning lets you guide municipalities to create the structures and systems that have a positive impact on everyday community life. Choose to specialize in  Civil Infrastructure ,  Environmental  or  Construction Engineering and Management . Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
9docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs > Civil Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Civil Engineering What is Civil Engineering? Civil Engineering  concerns itself with the design, construction and maintenance of the physical  infrastructure  of a modern society and its environment. Civil engineers plan roads, bridges, and transportation networks for moving people and goods. They are also responsible for the design of  foundations  and superstructures of common structures such as buildings,  bridges ,  dams ,  tunnels ,  wharves , as well as of unusual structures such as rocket installations,  containment buildings  for nuclear reactors, supports for  radio telescopes , and  frameworks for aircraft . In addition, they are concerned with the engineering aspects of  water resources ;  transportation facilities ; planning  metropolitan areas , and conducting and managing their public facilities. In dealing with  environmental problems , civil engineers perform vital functions such as monitoring and controlling air,  water , and  soil quality , assessing the  impact  of technological changes on the environment, and developing innovative  waste management technologies . Their work embodies human civilization and affects society's standard of living. Why Choose Civil Engineering? BCEE Department provides students with a blend of practical and theoretical instructions. The program is geared towards helping students establish themselves as professionals in their field of study. Final year students have the opportunity to deepen their knowledge by taking elective courses in the options: Option A  Civil Infrastructure Option B  Environmental Option C  Construction Engineering & Management (CEM) Career opportunities in Civil Engineering The  construction  industry is a major driving force of our economy. The rejuvenation of our aging infrastructure is a national priority that demands large public funding and the contributions of civil engineers. Civil engineers apply their know-how to the restoration, construction and maintenance of buildings, bridges, dams, transportation network as well as of the environment. They find employment in private, institutional and industrial sectors as well as in all levels of governments; they may hold supervisory or administrative positions, from supervisor of a construction site to city engineer. They may carry titles such as consulting engineer,  structural engineer ,  project engineer , transportation engineer, environmental engineer, geotechnical engineer, water resources engineer, construction manager, or cost engineer. Most work in design, construction, fabrication and inspection, while others in research, development and teaching. Our graduates can be found at numerous companies and organizations in Montreal and elsewhere, including: SNC-Lavalin Ministre des Transports du Quebec Hydro-Qubec Dessau-Soprin INSPEC-SOL Hatch Halsall RWDI Yolles Stantec Acres Environment Canada Infrastructure Canada Public Works and Government Services Canada National Research Council Canada Atomic Energy of Canada Limited Revay & Associates Tardif Murray & Associates Explore our programs Explore our programs Student Testimonials Related Links Building Engineering Environmental Engineering Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
10docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs > Environmental Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Environmental Engineering The application of engineering solutions to environmental problems has opened new and challenging engineering careers that require expertise from various civil engineering fields to deal with the pressing problems posed by the ever-increasing amounts of both municipal and industrial wastes threatening the well-being of today's society. Water body for recreation Our new Environmental Engineering Research Laboratory was officially opened on November 27, 2000 as the result of a CFI New Opportunities Infrastructure grant. Current main areas of research include: Applied environmental microbiology Environmental impact assessment Biosolids management Natural attenuation Soil remediation Waste management Water and wastewater treatment What is Environmental Engineering? Environmental Engineering  is a branch of civil engineering. It is concerned with the environment (the surrounding water, land, and air), and with developing and constructing systems, facilities, and technologies that provide a healthy and clean environment for our population. It is concerned with cleaning up already contaminated water and soils, managing  water resources , environmental auditing, modeling of environmental systems, and managing  hazardous wastes . Toronto wastewater treatment plant As our population increases, and as the effects of  global warming  continue, the technologies and techniques of environmental engineering are becoming more urgent. This is an exciting and important field of the future. Environmental engineering study is available in the following programs or specializations: Graduate Certificate in Environmental Engineering BEng (Civil) Option B MASc (Civil) Specialization PhD (Civil) Specialization Why Choose Environmental Engineering at Concordia At the undergraduate level, environmental engineering is offered as a  Civil Engineering program option  (Option B), where a minimum of 15 elective credits will be taken in this specialty. Field trip for lab measurements in the course CIVI 465: Water Pollution and Control For students who continue their studies in this field, the department now offers the  Graduate Certificate in Environmental Engineering , in which students can specialize in one of the following areas: Industrial Waste Management , Environmental Auditing, and Modeling of Environmental Systems. The Department has recently established a new  Environmental Engineering Laboratory . In addition, Civil Engineering programs leading to  MASc  and  PhD  degrees also provide specialized study and research in Environmental Engineering. Career Opportunities in Environmental Engineering There is a broad range of employment   opportunities in the field of environmental engineering. Employment   could be in a field which directly   contributes to the protection of   the environment (prevention,   reduction, management, and control of   pollution), or contributes to the   conservation of natural resources. Deer Island Digesters with gas cover Research in environmental technologies, education, training, and consultation are possible sectors of employment. Students might find jobs performing environmental audits and impact assessments. Opportunities exist in water and wastewater quality monitoring, modeling and water management and treatment, sewage management, design and construction of industrial chemical processing and hazardous waste treatment facilities, design and construction of landfills, and consulting for hazardous wastes. The environmental engineer could work directly in the environmental industry or for environmental interest groups, for consulting companies in the industrial sector (e.g.., mining, energy, agriculture and chemical), in the public sector (provincial, federal and municipal governments, universities or research centers), or for other non-governmental associations. What will I study? At the undergraduate level, students interested in Environmental Engineering should choose the Option B of the  BEng (Civil) program . Students follow the civil engineering course sequence for two years. In the third and fourth years, courses are chosen from the environmental engineering option. The program consists of the Engineering Core courses, the Civil Engineering Core, and Elective Courses chosen from Option B. In the first year, the basics of engineering such as technical drawing, mechanics of materials, thermodynamics are introduced. In the second year, the basics are continued while topics in civil engineering and environmental engineering such as Hydraulics, Geology and Environmental Engineering are introduced. In the third year, students gain a deeper understanding of civil and environmental engineering with courses such as Soil Mechanics, Hydrology. In the third and forth years, elective courses are chosen from Option B, which is designed for those students interested in environmental engineering. Students will have the opportunity to apply their knowledge to real-life application in the final year Capstone Civil Engineering Design Project. See the  Course Schedule by semester  for the sequence of courses to be taken. Read more about  Options in Civil Engineering programs . Specializations in Environmental Engineering Geo-environmental engineering Hazardous wastes, air and water resources Air quality, monitoring, modeling and air pollution reduction Environmental assessment, modeling and site remediation for soil and groundwater waste management, collection and reduction Water and wastewater quality monitoring, modeling and water management and treatment, sewage management Design and construction of industrial chemical processing and hazardous waste treatment facilities Design and construction of landfills Explore our programs Explore our programs Student Testimonials Related Links Building Engineering Civil Engineering Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
11docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > About the department Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the department The Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering (BCEE) is an academic unit within the  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science  of Concordia University. It was founded in 1997 with the merger of the  Centre for Building Studies  (est. in 1976) and the  Department of Civil Engineering  (est. in 1967). BCEE offers  programs of study  in Building Engineering, also known in the US as Architectural Engineering, and Civil Engineering which includes Environmental Engineering as an option and a major research area. The  CEAB-accredited  undergraduate programs lead to the B.Eng. degree while the graduate programs include the Graduate Certificates, the MEng, MASc and PhD degrees. Concordia University is a large, urban university in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Read a  brief overview of the University  or consult  job opportunities  in our department. EV Building staircase. Click to enlarge How to  find us Undergraduate program enquiries Graduate   program enquiries Join the conversation Concordia Engineering @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Related links Overview of Concordia University Meet our faculty members Meet our staff News & Events Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
12docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > News & events > Notices Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Notices October 3, 2014 University flags at half-mast on October 4 and 5 September 23, 2013 Dr. Andreas Athienitis awarded Senior NSERC Industrial Research Chair September 18, 2013 Honorable mention for best journal article September 18, 2013 Paper received the Stephan G. Revay Award at the 2013-CSCE conference June 1, 2013 Second place in the 2013 CSCE Best Student Paper Competition May 29, 2013 CSCE 2013 Annual Conference May 15, 2013 An innovative water treatment system April 15, 2013 Dr. M. Elektorowicz awarded CSCE's Albert E. Berry Medal April 15, 2013 Winner of the Engineers Without Borders Concordia's Global Engineering Award April 9, 2013 Third place in the Ottawa Eco-Logical Competition January 21, 2013 Retired Professor Emeritus Cedric Marsh July 4, 2012 Faculty Garners Concordia's First CREATE Award May 4, 2012 Three Building Engineering students won awards at the 7th biennial eSim Building Simulation Conference March 1, 2012 Nokken named ACI Fellow December 15, 2011 2011 News Archive Show more news Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter (CSCE:CSC) Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
13docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Student life Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student life Find out what's happening at BCEE and what the department has to offer to students.  Get involved  with your community. Academic integrity Current students Current students Student & professional associations Campus services Financial support Computer labs and accounts Course registration, sequences, descriptions & advising FAQ for graduate students Get involved! List of student groups at Concordia Message boards for BCEE students Undergraduate students Graduate students Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS Alumni Chapter Group Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
14docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Current students Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Current students Open House Key resources Concordia Class Schedule ENCS Class Schedule All ENCS labs schedules Door codes How to avoid plagiarism offence Course sequences Student Academic Services Student requests, readmission forms, transfer requests and more can all be found at SAS. Visit SAS now Undergraduate registration Graduate registration Important Deadlines Academic Writing Resources Graduate Academic Dates Graduate Application Deadlines Convocation Technical Writing & Presentation Guide to punctuation  (Larry Trask, University of Sussex) Basic paragraph construction Rules of thumb for writing research articles  (Tom Hengl & Michael Gould) Scientific presentations References Bartleby's great books online Onelook's dictionaries Fundamental constants Handbook of Mathematical Functions Current students Undergraduate course & registration info Course sequences Graduate students Academic regulations How to Study Guide Problem Solving Skills Graduation checklist Message Boards for BCEE students Undergraduate students Graduate students Useful links MyConcordia Portal Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Undergraduate Calendar Graduate Calendar Research assistant positions Academic integrity Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
15docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > About the department > Job opportunities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Job opportunities BCEE faculty and teaching positions Assistant Professor, tenure-track position: Sustainable Infrastructure for Communities in Cold Climates ENCS faculty and teaching positions Strategic Hire - Sustainable Infrastructure for Communities in Cold Climates Mechanical & Industrial Engineering - Assistant or Associate Professor Canada Research Chair: CIISE - Cyber Security Strategic Hire - Computer Games and Virtual Worlds CIISE - Assistant Professor Assistant Professor, Software Engineering Strategic Hire - Interaction Design, Theory and Practice University staff opportunities FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & COMPUTER SCIENCEdocContentEnd
16docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > About the department > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time Faculty Extended-term Faculty Professors Emeriti Affiliate Faculty Full-time Faculty Hashem Akbari Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3201 S-EV 6409 hashem.akbari@concordia.ca Ciprian Alecsandru Associate Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8769 S-EV 6161 ciprian.alecsandru@concordia.ca Transportation Engineering and Design, Traffic operations and control, Traffic simulation, Intelligent transportation systems, Artificial intelligence applications in transportation Luis Amador Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5783 S-EV 6164 luis.amador@concordia.ca Transportation Engineering and Asset Management, Road Safety and Highway Planning, Land Use and Transport Modeling for Transportation Asset Management, Practicalities on Infrastructure Management Systems: Treatments Effectiveness, Homogeneous Groups, Spatial-Temporal Coordination of Activities and Re-optimization, Andreas K Athienitis Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8791 S-EV 6159 andreask.athienitis@concordia.ca (Director, Concordia Centre for Zero Energy Building Studies (EV 15.101)) Solar Energy Engineering, Energy Efficiency, Renewable energy, energy efficiency. Integrated photovoltaics/solar energy utilization systems, Modeling, optimization and control of building thermal systems, Heating ventilation air-conditioning (HVAC), Numerical simulation of heat transfer, Thermal performance of the building envelope, Ashutosh Bagchi Associate Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering Associate Chair 514-848-2424, ext. 3213 S-EV 6111 ashutosh.bagchi@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Structural dynamics and earthquake Engineering, Rehabilitation and structural health monitoring (SHM) of civil infrastructure, Reinforced concrete structures, Finite and boundary element methods, Computer aided design and engineering / Information technology Anjan Bhowmick Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5950 S-EV 6241 anjan.bhowmick@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Seismic design and analysis of steel and reinforced concrete structures, Bridge Engineering, Seismic rehabilitation of steel structures, Fatigue of steel structures, Connections of steel structures Zhi Chen Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8775 S-EV 6169 zhi.chen@concordia.ca Environmental Engineering, Modeling of pollutants fate and transport in the environment, Risk assessment, air pollution, and environmental application of systems analysis and information technology, Pollution control planning, Management of soil and groundwater contamination, and coastal environmental protection. Maria Elektorowicz Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7805 S-EV 6213 maria.elektorowicz@concordia.ca Environmental Engineering, Bio-physico-chemical interaction phenomena in soil/groundwater/contaminant matrix, Biosolids management, Site assessment & remediation - biological, physical and chemical techniques, Modelling of contaminant transport in water, sediments and biota, Management for Acid Sulfate Soils, Waste disposal facilities - landfill, recycling, and recovery Khaled E. Galal Professor, Undergraduate Program Director, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3196 S-EV 6167 khaled.galal@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Seismic rehabilitation of reinforced concrete and masonry structures, Applications of advanced composite materials in upgrading of structures, Performance-based design of structures, Modeling of building structures and bridges, Earthquake engineering and structural dynamics Hua Ge Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8771 S-EV 6122 hua.ge@concordia.ca Kinh H. Ha Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3193 S-EV 6157 kinhhuy.ha@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Structural systems, Finite element analysis, Structural mechanics, Computer aided design Fariborz Haghighat Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering Concordia Research Chair - Energy and Environment (Tier I) 514-848-2424, ext. 3192 S-EV 6153 fariborz.haghighat@concordia.ca Indoor Air Quality and Ventilation, Building material characterization, Modeling of airflow and contaminant dispersal, Indoor air environmental control strategies, Measurement techniques for airflow and indoor Air Quality, Advanced ventilation technologies (Hybrid ventilation) Adel M. Hanna Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7808 S-EV 6127 am.hanna@concordia.ca Geotechnical Engineering, Soil-structure interaction, Bearing and uplift capacities of pile foundations, Pull-out capacity of plate and helical anchors, Performance of shell type foundations, Performance of subgrade and pavement materials in highways Bruno Lee Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5399 S-EV 15103 bruno.lee@concordia.ca Building Energy Performance Simulation, Integrated Building Design, Energy Efficiency, Automated Design Space Exploration, Stochastic Risk Analysis towards Robust Design, Multi-criteria Decision Making and Multi-objective Optimization for Sustainable Design S. Samuel Li Associate Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3033 S-EV 6171 sam.li@concordia.ca Hydraulics and Water Resources, Sediment transport in gravel-bed rivers and river erosion, Computational methods in river hydraulics and density-stratified flow, Pollutant transport and turbulent mixing in shallow waters, Water-ice interaction, Coastal hydraulic Lan Lin Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3032 S-EV 6245 lan.lin@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Seismic performance of buildings and bridges, Performance-based earthquake engineering, Development of seismic fragility curves for buildings and bridges, Development of improved intensity measures for probabilistic seismic, demand analysis, Seismic risk assessment using HAZUS-MH, Characterization of seismic ground motions Osama Moselhi Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3190 S-EV 6109 osama.moselhi@concordia.ca Construction Engineering and Management, Integrated cost and time control & project risk assessment, Planning, tracking and control of construction operations, Web-based project performance system, Optimization model for site selection and evaluation Catherine Mulligan Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering Concordia Research Chair in Geoenvironmental Sustainability (Tier I) 514-848-2424, ext. 4212 S-EV 2149 catherine.mulligan@concordia.ca Environmental Engineering, Surfactant-enhanced washing and flushing of contaminated soils and sediments, Treatment and management of metal-contaminated soils, sediments and wastes, Bioremediation, Physical, chemical and biological treatment of wastewater, Biological treatment of air. Oscar Pekau Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7809 S-EV 6121 oscar.pekau@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Earthquake resistant design of buildings, Seismic fracture analysis of concrete dams, Progressive collapse of precast panel structures, Controlling seismic damage in asymmetric structures, Computer applications in structural engineering Fuzhan Nasiri Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4172 S-EV 6207 fuzhan.nasiri@concordia.ca Infrastructure Systems Engineering, Decentralized (Localized) Infrastructure Management, Sustainable Energy & Resources Engineering, Renewable Energy Modelling & Optimization, Sustainable Asset Management; Facility & Service Operations Management Michelle Nokken Associate Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7806 S-EV 6124 m.nokken@concordia.ca Concrete Durability, Improvement of Durability Test Methods, Rapid Quality Control Testing, Cemented Mine Backfill Saifur Rahaman Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5058 S-EV 6401 saifur.rahaman@concordia.ca Environmental Engineering, Environmental applications and implications of nanomaterials, Membrane separations, Electrochemical advanced oxidation, Resource recovery from waste, Process modelling for advanced treatment technologies Amruthur S. Ramamurthy Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7807 S-EV 6126 amruthur.ramamurthy@concordia.ca Environmental Engineering, Water quality modeling, Site remediation, Ground water and surface water contamination, Fluids Engineering and Hydraulics, CFD modeling, Flow measurement, Fluids engineering, Hydraulic engineering, Water resources engineering Theodore Stathopoulos Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3186 S-EV 6125 theodore.stathopoulos@concordia.ca Wind Engineering, Wind effects on buildings & building aerodynamics, Wind environment, Dispersion of pollutants in the urban environment, Computational wind engineering, Codification of wind effects Lucia Tirca Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7924 S-EV 6211 lucia.tirca@concordia.ca Structural Engineering, Design Buildings to Withstand Seismic Forces, Design Steel Structures with Different Dissipation Devices, Seismic Retrofit and Rehabilitation of Existing Steel Structures, Structural Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering Liangzhu (Leon) Wang Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5766 S-EV 6166 leon.wang@concordia.ca Building Environment, Forecasting/Hybrid building simulations using weather forecasting models, Building airflow and thermal management, High-rise building fire protection and smoke management, Modeling and sub-scale experiments for building fire smoke management, Integrating Fire Dynamics Simulator with multizone network model CONTAM, Real-time building simulations, Mohammed Zaheeruddin Professor, Chair, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5940 S-EV 6163 m.zaheeruddin@concordia.ca HVAC and Control Systems, Decentralized and Multivariable controls, Optimization of HVAC processes, Experimental Methods in HVAC Controls, Computer-Aided Design of HVAC Systems, Diagnostics of HVAC Systems Tarek Zayed Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8779 S-EV 6107 tarek.zayed@concordia.ca Construction Engineering and Management, Sustainable pavement marking management systems, Sustainable water systems, Sustainable sewer systems, Sustainable tunnels and metro stations Zhenhua Zhu Assistant Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering zhenhua.zhu@concordia.ca Construction Engineering and Management, Building Information Modeling with Data Sensing and Analysis, Transmission Pipelines Inspection and Condition Assessment, Project Constructability and Productivity Analysis Radu Zmeureanu Professor, ing, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4211 S-EV 2143 radu.zmeureanu@concordia.ca Energy Efficiency, Design and analysis of energy-efficient buildings, Sustainable development concept applied to buildings, Second law analysis of HVAC systems, Optimization of life cycle performance of buildings and HVAC systems, Computer modelling of energy performance of buildings and HVAC systems, Computer modelling of refrigeration systems for ice rinks, Net zero energy houses, Attila Michael Zsaki Associate Professor, Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3198 S-EV 6151 am.zsaki@concordia.ca Rock mechanics. Computational geomechanics. Continuum and discontinuum mechanics. Scientific computing. Geometric modeling. Extended-term Faculty Jassim Hassan Limited-term Faculty Jian Li Hao Professors Emeriti Sabah T. Alkass Bala Ashtakala Dorel Feldman Richard Guy Zenon Albert Zielinski Affiliate Faculty Ali Baghloul Suzelle Barrington Kenneth Lee Laleh Yerushalmi Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
17docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > About the department > Staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Staff Admin & support staff Dr. M. Zaheeruddin Chair Ms. Tanya Proulx Assistant to the Chair Ms. Olga Soares Department Administrator Dr. Fariborz Haghighat Graduate Program Director Ms. Jenny Drapeau Graduate Programs Advisor Dr. Luis Amodar Undergraduate Curriculum Director Dr. Zhenhua Zhu Co-op Program Director Ms. Min Ning Engineer in Residence Ms. Elli Aghdami Program Assistant & Coop Secretary Ms. Debbie Walker Program Assistant Ms. Linda Swinden Office Assistant Mr. Sylvain Blanger Systems Analyst Mr. Franois Carrire Systems Analyst Technicians Vacant Project Design Supervisor Mr. Tiberiu Aldea Laboratory Coordinator Mr. Luc Demers Technician Mr. Mark Elie Technician (Structures Laboratory) Mr. Jaime Yeargans Technician Ms. Hong Guan Technician Mr. Lang Vo Technician Mr. Joseph Hrib Technician Mr. Roberto Avila-Perez Technician Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
18docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Dr. Andreas Athienitis awarded Senior NSERC Industrial Research Chair Posted on September 23, 2013 | Source:  Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Andreas Athienitis from the Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering, has been named the inaugural chairholder of the Senior NSERC Industrial Research Chair in Optimized Operation and Energy Efficiency: toward High Performance Buildings at Concordia. The new chair was made possible thanks to more than $2 million in funding from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC), Hydro-Qubec, Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) and Rgulvar. The goal of Athienitis' research is to make buildings cleaner, greener and smarter. Find out more. Related Topics awards engineering Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
19docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Honorable mention for best journal article Posted on September 18, 2013 | Source:  Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Dr.  C. J. Willis 's  paper  won honorable mention for the  Stephan G. Revay Award  for best journal article in the Canadian Journal of Civil Engineering in the area of construction engineering and management. He was also awarded the first ever Global Engineering Award for excellence in teaching. Related Topics awards engineering Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
20docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn University flags at half-mast on October 4 and 5 Flags will be lowered to mark the passing of Professor Paul Fazio Posted on October 3, 2014 Paul Fazio, Professor of Building Engineering in the Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering, passed away on September 28. A Funeral Mass will be celebrated at 11:00 a.m. on Saturday, October 4, 2014 at St. Edward the Confessor Mission, 98 Aurora Avenue, Pointe Claire. The universitys flags will be lowered to half-mast on Saturday and Sunday, October 4 and 5 to honour his memory. For more information about Professor Fazio and the dates and times of the visitation and funeral please read  Paul Fazio: a visionary in building engineering . Related Links Concordias flag lowering policy (SG-12) Announcement of Dr. Fazios passing Related Topics facilities faculty in memoriam Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
21docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs BCEE offers  undergraduate  &  graduate programs  in Building Engineering & Civil Engineering, which includes Environmental Engineering as an option, a specialization & a major research area. Contact the  Undergraduate Program Assistant Contact the  Graduate Program Assistant Subjects Building Engineering Building Engineers are concerned with the planning, design, construction, operation, renovation, and maintenance of buildings, as well as with their impacts on the surrounding environment. Learn more Civil Engineering Design, build and maintain the infrastructure of a modern society and its environment. Civil engineers plan roads, bridges, and transportation networks for moving people and goods. Learn more Environmental Engineering Apply engineering solutions to environmental problems with expertise from civil engineering fields and deal with the pressing problems posed by municipal and industrial wastes threatening. Learn more Degrees Co-op  format is available in the BEng programs, while  independent study  & Industrial Option are available at the MEng level. Undergraduate BEng (Bldg) BEng (Civil) Graduate PhD (Bldg) MASc (Bldg) MEng (Bldg) Graduate Certificate (Bldg) PhD (Civil) MASc (Civil) MEng (Civil) Graduate Certificate (Environmental) Other Instead of enrolling in a graduate program, qualified engineering graduates may register for courses as  independent students . The credits earned in these courses may be eligible for transferring to a regular graduate program. Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
22docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Facilities & services > Research Labs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Labs Learn more about our department's  Building Engineering ,  Civil Engineering  &  Environmental Engineering  Research Labs. Lab Safety IT support (AITS) Building Engineering Labs Civil Engineering Labs Environmental Engineering Lab Interdisciplinary Research Labs Building Enclosure  Performance Facility &   Infrastructure Management Systems   Engineering Computer-Aided   Design Facility Rehab & Structural    Health Monitoring Waste Control   & Management Energy Efficiency  in Buildings Pollutant Control    & Dispersal Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
23docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Facilities & services > Teaching Labs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Teaching Labs Learn more about our  Building Engineering ,  Civil Engineering  &  Environmental Engineering  Teaching Labs. Lab Safety IT support (AITS) Building Engineering Labs Acoustics & Lighting Lab Solar Energy / Lighting Lab Room: EV-0S3.412 Learn more Building Science Building Services Lab Room: HB-011.02 Learn more Construction Engineering & Management Lab This lab is housed in the research lab. Learn more Engineering Materials Lab Room: CB-009.02 Learn more Civil Engineering Labs Capstone Project Workshop Room: CB-004 Learn more Surveying Lab Room: CC-123-1 Learn more Hydraulics Computation Lab / Water Resources Lab Affiliated: Water Resources Engineering Research Lab. Learn more Mechanical  Materials Lab Rooms: HB-0927-00, 01 & 03 Learn more Soil Mechanics Lab Room: CB-009 Learn more Environmental Engineering Lab Environmental Engineering Lab Room: HB-003.1 Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
24docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Facilities & services > Lab Safety Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Lab Safety The Department of Building, Civil and Environmental Engineering takes every reasonable precaution to protect the health and safety of faculty, researchers, staff, and students. However, users of university facilities should first be aware of their responsibilities and rights in the workplace, as well as of the safety procedures and guidelines. For this purpose, the Health and Safety Committee has introduced the following measures: Continuing effort to identify and address Environmental, Health and Safety issues specific to Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering Implementation of safety procedures and policies unique to the needs of BCEE Stricter enforcement of the basic laboratory safety practices. Professors and Supervisors are always your first contact for safety concerns. Documents Links BCEE Department Safety Contacts Laboratory Safety Manual Emergency-Procedure Manual Policy on First Aid and Medical Emergency Concordia Environmental Health & Safety Concordia Emergency Procedures Video Campus Security Phone:  514-848-3717 Dial 1 for emergencies Dial 2 for non-emergencies General Inquiries Engineer in residence:   Min Ning Phone:  514-848-2424 Ext 4040 Room:   EV6.185 E-mail Related Links Emergency Procedure Manual Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
25docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Research > Research centres Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research centres Learn about net-zero energy buildings and sustainable development practices. Solar Buildings Research Network Interested in the design and development of net-zero energy buildings and communities? Read more Concordia Institute for Water, Energy and Sustainable Systems CIWESS trains students to be at the forefront of sustainable development practices. Read more Our Researchers Contact us Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
26docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Research > Researchers Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Researchers Dr. C. Alecsandru Transportation Engineering and Design Traffic operations and control Traffic simulation Intelligent transportation systems Artificial intelligence applications in transportation Dr. L. Amador Transportation Engineering and Asset Management Road Safety and Highway Planning Land Use and Transport Modeling for Transportation Asset Management Practicalities on Infrastructure Management Systems: Treatments Effectiveness, Homogeneous Groups Spatial-Temporal Coordination of Activities and Re-optimization Heuristic Optimization Techniques for Multi-objective Across Assets Analytical Tools Pavement Engineering: Use of Sulphate Ammonia on Frost susceptible pavements, Airport Pavements, Low volume roads. Multilevel Bayesian Statistics and Markov Chain Monte Carlo simulation for Reliability-based performance modeling Dr. A. Athienitis Solar Energy Engineering, Energy Efficiency Renewable energy, energy efficiency. Integrated photovoltaics/solar energy utilization systems Modeling, optimization and control of building thermal systems Heating ventilation air-conditioning (HVAC) Numerical simulation of heat transfer Thermal performance of the building envelope Daylighting, computer control of motorized shading devices and dimmable lights Dr. A. Bagchi Structural Engineering Structural dynamics and earthquake Engineering Rehabilitation and structural health monitoring (SHM) of civil infrastructure Reinforced concrete structures Finite and boundary element methods Computer aided design and engineering / Information technology Dr. A. Bhowmick Structural Engineering Seismic design and analysis of steel and reinforced concrete structures Bridge Engineering Seismic rehabilitation of steel structures Fatigue of steel structures Connections of steel structures Dr. Z. Chen Environmental Engineering Modeling of pollutants fate and transport in the environment Risk assessment, air pollution, and environmental application of systems analysis and information technology Pollution control planning Management of soil and groundwater contamination, and coastal environmental protection. Dr. M. Elektorowicz Environmental Engineering Bio-physico-chemical interaction phenomena in soil/groundwater/contaminant matrix Biosolids management Site assessment & remediation - biological, physical and chemical techniques Modelling of contaminant transport in water, sediments and biota Management for Acid Sulfate Soils Waste disposal facilities - landfill, recycling, and recovery Dr. D. Feldman Building Materials Polymers (plastics, adhesives, sealants etc) Composites based on synthetic fibres Polymers and organic compounds for energy conservation Dr. K. Galal Structural Engineering Seismic rehabilitation of reinforced concrete and masonry structures Applications of advanced composite materials in upgrading of structures Performance-based design of structures Modeling of building structures and bridges Earthquake engineering and structural dynamics Dr. K. Ha Structural Engineering Structural systems Finite element analysis Structural mechanics Computer aided design Dr. F. Haghighat Indoor Air Quality and Ventilation Building material characterization Modeling of airflow and contaminant dispersal Indoor air environmental control strategies Measurement techniques for airflow and indoor Air Quality Advanced ventilation technologies (Hybrid ventilation) Dr. A. Hanna Geotechnical Engineering Soil-structure interaction Bearing and uplift capacities of pile foundations Pull-out capacity of plate and helical anchors Performance of shell type foundations Performance of subgrade and pavement materials in highways Dr. S. Li Hydraulics and Water Resources Sediment transport in gravel-bed rivers and river erosion Computational methods in river hydraulics and density-stratified flow Pollutant transport and turbulent mixing in shallow waters Water-ice interaction Coastal hydraulics Dr. L. Lin Structural Engineering Seismic performance of buildings and bridges Performance-based earthquake engineering Development of seismic fragility curves for buildings and bridges Development of improved intensity measures for probabilistic seismic demand analysis Seismic risk assessment using HAZUS-MH Characterization of seismic ground motions Dr. O. Moselhi Construction Engineering and Management Integrated cost and time control & project risk assessment Planning, tracking and control of construction operations Web-based project performance system Optimization model for site selection and evaluation Dr. C. Mulligan Environmental Engineering Surfactant-enhanced washing and flushing of contaminated soils and sediments Treatment and management of metal-contaminated soils, sediments and wastes Bioremediation Physical, chemical and biological treatment of wastewater Biological treatment of air. Dr. M. Nokken Building Materials Development of on-site techniques to assess adequate curing and durability of concrete Durability health monitoring Repair and rehabilitation of civil infrastructure Optimization of supplementary materials for sustainability and durability Permeability and Pore Structure Development Cemented mine backfill Dr. O. Pekau Structural Engineering Earthquake resistant design of buildings Seismic fracture analysis of concrete dams Progressive collapse of precast panel structures Controlling seismic damage in asymmetric structures Computer applications in structural engineering Dr. S. Rahaman Environmental Engineering Environmental applications and implications of nanomaterials Membrane separations Electrochemical advanced oxidation Resource recovery from waste Process modelling for advanced treatment technologies Dr. A. Ramamurthy Environmental Engineering Water quality modeling Site remediation Ground water and surface water contamination Fluids Engineering and Hydraulics CFD modeling Flow measurement Fluids engineering Hydraulic engineering Water resources engineering Dr. T. Stathopoulos Wind Engineering Wind effects on buildings & building aerodynamics Wind environment Dispersion of pollutants in the urban environment Computational wind engineering Codification of wind effects Dr. L. Tirca Structural Engineering Design Buildings to Withstand Seismic Forces Design Steel Structures with Different Dissipation Devices Seismic Retrofit and Rehabilitation of Existing Steel Structures Structural Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering Dr. L. Wang Building Environment Forecasting/Hybrid building simulations using weather forecasting models Building airflow and thermal management High-rise building fire protection and smoke management Modeling and sub-scale experiments for building fire smoke management Integrating Fire Dynamics Simulator with multizone network model CONTAM Real-time building simulations Computational fluid dynamics applied to building designs Whole-building annual energy analysis Dr. M. Zaheeruddin HVAC and Control Systems Decentralized and Multivariable controls Optimization of HVAC processes Experimental Methods in HVAC Controls Computer-Aided Design of HVAC Systems Diagnostics of HVAC Systems Dr. T. Zayed Construction Engineering and Management Sustainable pavement marking management systems Sustainable water systems Sustainable sewer systems Sustainable tunnels and metro stations Dr. Z. Zhu Construction Engineering and Management Building Information Modeling with Data Sensing and Analysis Transmission Pipelines Inspection and Condition Assessment Project Constructability and Productivity Analysis Dr. R. Zmeureanu Energy Efficiency Design and analysis of energy-efficient buildings. Sustainable development concept applied to buildings Second law analysis of HVAC systems Optimization of life cycle performance of buildings and HVAC systems Computer modelling of energy performance of buildings and HVAC systems Computer modelling of refrigeration systems for ice rinks Net zero energy houses Analysis and validation of building energy analysis programs. Impact of building design and control strategies on thermal comfort Dr. A. Zsaki Geotechnical Engineering Numerical modeling of the drying and cracking of geomaterials in 2D and 3D. Rock fracture using 2D and 3D discrete elements. Parallel computation of stresses around underground excavations. Large-scale geometry and mesh optimization for underground excavations. Numerical modeling of impact and stress propagation through geomaterials. Automatic mesh generation for application in numerical stress analysis. Research centres Solar Buildings Research Network Concordia Institute for Water, Energy and Sustainable Systems Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
27docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News More latest news Paul Fazio: a visionary in building engineering October 1, 2014 Four exceptional professors honoured with Presidents Excellence in Teaching Awards( June 4, 2014 Concordia and Polytechnique Montral join forces to simulate an earthquake May 13, 2014 Faculty Accolades, April 2014 April 8, 2014 Improved pavement markings can save lives March 19, 2014 Faculty Accolades, March 2014 March 14, 2014 ENCS Notices November 24, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 21, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 26, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing October 31, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak November 26, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 21, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry More notices Events More events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Student Banking 101 Faculty Accolades More | RSS BCEE Notices October 3, 2014 University flags at half-mast on October 4 and 5 September 23, 2013 Dr. Andreas Athienitis awarded Senior NSERC Industrial Research Chair September 18, 2013 Honorable mention for best journal article Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS Alumni Chapter Group Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
28docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Student life > Scholarships & awards Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Scholarships & awards Teaching Assistantships Tutor, Lab Demonstrator and Marker assignments are provided by the Department, and awarded to qualified applicants in July/August (for fall and winter semester courses), December (for the remaining winter semester courses), and March/April (for summer courses). The basic requirements are technical knowledge and good communication skills as demonstrated by past experience and academic records. TAs are required to pass the COPTTA (Concordia Oral Proficiency Test for Teaching Assistants). The available positions for the Department of BCEE are advertised in ENCS  TA web portal . Applicants are required to provide the necessary documentation by the stipulated deadlines. Excellent 3rd or 4th year undergraduate students with CGPA of at least 3.7 are encouraged to apply. For graduate applicants, priority is given to, respectively, Ph.D., M.A.Sc., and then M.Eng students. For tutor positions, preference is given to students with better verbal communication skills. Students interested in applying for a TA position should subscribe to either the  BCEEng-group  (for undergraduate students) or  BCEGrad-group  (for graduate students) in order to get the latest information by email. All TA positions are in accordance to the  PSAC-TRAC Collective Agreement . TA's must abide by the conditions stipulated in the Agreement, and must complete and sign the union membership form found at the end of the TRAC when they come to sign the tutor/lab demonstrator/marker contract. Undergraduate  Students Graduate  Students International  Students Financial Aid and Awards Award Database Faculty scholarships NSERC Summer Undergraduate Student Research Award . Usually announced in November. Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate Award Magil Construction Ltd. Scholarships Financial Aid and Awards Guidelines for Preparing Fellowship Applications Retired Faculty & Staff Awards  (September) Concordia Fellowships Award Database Harriet and Abe Gold Entrance Bursaries Carolyn and Richard Renaud Graduate Teaching Assistantships Power Corporation of Canada Graduate Fellowships France and Andr Desmarais Graduate Fellowship Armand C. Archambault Graduate Fellowship Campaign for Concordia Awards Hydro Qubec Awards M.A.Sc. and/or Ph.D. Students Financial support provided by the thesis supervisors. Avtar Pall Award : To be announced in August. Awards in Transportation Studies : To be announced in August. SGS Doctoral Teaching Assistantships Canadian Students and Permanent Residents NSERC Postgraduate Scholarships Competitions : Announced in September. Deadline in October. Quebec Postgraduate Scholarships Competitions:  Fonds de recherche du Qubec  Nature et technologies  (FQRNT): Deadlines in October. Message Boards Register for  BCEGrad-Yahoo Group  for announcements of scholarships, awards competition, teaching assistantships as well as of examinations, thesis defences and job-postings. International Tuition Fee Remission Award : Applied within the Admission Application Form or around November. Partial Tuition Scholarship : To be announced in August. PBEEE - Quebec Merit Fellowships for Foreign Students Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate Award The Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate award was established in 2005 through the generosity of Dr. Paul Fazio, Professor of Building Engineering at the Envelope Performance Laboratory, Centre for Building Studies (CBS), Department of Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering. Dr. Fazio founded the CBS in the late 1970s, which he headed until 1997. Over this period he established the Building Engineering programs at the Bachelor, Masters, and Doctoral levels. For Dr. Fazio's contributions to building engineering research and education, he was named Fellow of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers (FCSCE), the American Society of Civil Engineers (FASCE), and the Engineering Institute of Canada (EIC). The non-renewable Paul Fazio Building Engineering Undergraduate Award is intended to recognize and encourage an outstanding Undergraduate student pursuing full-time studies in the field of building engineering at Concordia University. Candidates must have a minimum GPA of 3.40 with 60 credits completed, or in the process of being completed, and must demonstrate good communication and leadership skills in the promotion of building engineering. A statement of purpose must be provided with the candidate's application, highlighting why they chose building engineering, their activities promoting building engineering, and how they plan to foster this discipline in their studies and future career. Details: Application required: Yes Open to Canadian citizens and Permanent residents: Yes Open to international students: No Open to part time students: No Department/Concentration: Building Engineering This award is part of the  Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program . Candidates are selected each year by the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee. Information on applications and annual deadlines can be obtained from the  Financial Aid and Awards Office . Magil Construction Ltd. Scholarships A number of in-course scholarships are available through the generous support of Magil Construction Ltd. These scholarships are available to all full-time students pursuing a major in Building or Civil Engineering, and who have completed between thirty-five (35) and seventy (70) credits in the Building or Civil Engineering program. Details: Application required: No Open to Canadian citizens and Permanent residents: Yes Open to international students: No Open to part time students: No Faculty: Engineering and Computer Science Department/Concentration: Building Engineering, Civil Engineering This award is part of the  Undergraduate In-Course Scholarships & Awards Program . No application is required; candidates are recommended by the Department of Building, Civil, and Environmental Engineering to the Undergraduate Scholarships and Awards Committee each year. Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter (CSCE:CSC) Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
29docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Research centres Researchers Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Scholarships & awards Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Building, Civil & Environmental Engineering (BCEE) > Student life > Student & Professional Associations Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student & Professional Associations Alumni Network - ENCS As a graduate of the Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science, you are a valued member of a network of over 15,000 alumni throughout the world. Staying connected to our alma mater brings many rewards, not least of which is the networking opportunity at our many events. You'd be surprised at the pace of positive developments at Concordia University, and your alumni chapter will keep you abreast of all the latest news.  Learn more Student Associations The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter  (CSCE:CSC) Women In Engineering (WIE) Concordia University Engineering and Computer Science Association  (ECA) Montreal-Quebec ITE Student Chapter Concordia Graduate Student Association  (GSA) Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association  (ECSGA) Concordia Student Union Professional Associations Canadian Society for Civil Engineering  (CSCE) Association for the Advancement of Cost Engineering  (AACE) American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers  (ASHRAE) Ordre des ingnieurs du Quebec  (OIQ) The Canadian Council of Professional Engineers  (CCPE) Canadian Institute of Transportation Engineers  (CITE) Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter (CSCE:CSC) Message Boards for BCEE students Undergraduate students Graduate students Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 6.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
30docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact If you know who you're searching for,  visit our staff page . Search the complete Concordia directory View larger map Contact us Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Dean's office 514-848-2424 ext. 3109 514-848-4509 Student Academic Services 514-848-2424 ext. 3055 Location Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science 1515 St. Catherine W.,  EV002.139 Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 Mailing address Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Concordia University 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
31docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research As the proud home of several Canada Research Chairs, Concordia University Research Chairs, and Research Centres, our Faculty is recognized nationally and internationally for the high and innovative quality of its individual and team research. These research strengths are integral to our goal of providing leading-edge graduate education and training across our PhD and Masters programs. Research expertise Research centres Research chairs Laboratories Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
32docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Academics Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Academics From robotics to airplanes, buildings to industrial processes, energy and telecommunications to artificial intelligence, our programs emphasize engineering with a social conscience and a global perspective. Talk to a recruiter Apply now What you can study here Undergraduate & graduate degree programs Departments Co-op & Industrial Experience programs Libraries Visiting and exchange Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
33docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > About the Faculty Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the Faculty The Faculty of ENCS offers a curriculum and environment that challenges students and researchers to trigger social change through technological innovation. Contact us See our faculty news Learn more about the faculty > Accreditations Dean's office Job opportunities Faculty administration Fast facts 28 Research Chairs 5 Canada Research Chairs 172 Professors 6 Departments Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
34docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Student life Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student life Join a student group with like-minded individuals, or get advice from alumni. Simply go beyond the classroom to get the most out of your student experience. Get more out of campus life Plan your career Electrical and Computer Engineering Labs EDML class Engineering and Visual Arts Complex Space Concordia at MDA Student associations There's an engineering or computer science student group out there for you. Learn about what they do and how to get involved. You never know  a chance encounter could introduce you to your future business partner. Explore engineering and computer science student groups Success stories Yiran Feng BEng 07 Claudio Vissa BEng 76, MEng 79 Charmaine Christie-Primo BEng 12 Alex Potapov BEng 12 Join the Conversation Facebook Twitter Flickr Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
35docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services The faculty's facilities and services offer the spaces and resources that play a key role in academic life, from computer labs and project rooms to accounts and technical support. Services List of computer labs Capstone project rooms IT support (AITS) Room bookings To book a classroom or conference room for meetings, please send an email to  bookings@encs.concordia.ca . Lab schedules Card access & key requests ENCS lab access codes Health & safety Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
36docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering is concerned primarily with energy and information and their conversion/transmission in the most efficient and reliable manner. This vast field of endeavor includes many specialties and Electrical Engineers may be involved in one or more of these throughout their careers. A partial list includes: electronics, integrated circuit design, very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuit design, layout and testing, controls, robotics, system simulation, telecommunications, signal processing, computer hardware design, software design, power devices, antennas, wave guides, lasers, and optoelectronics. Explore our degree programs Computer Engineering Computer Engineering is the driving force of the information revolution and its transformation of society. Over the course of their careers, computer engineers will be called upon to meet a number of challenges, most of which cannot be imagined today. A partial list of current specialties includes: computer architecture, digital electronics, digital circuits, very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuit design, layout and testing, digital circuit testing and reliability, software design, software engineering, digital communication and computer networks. Explore our degree programs Bachelor programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Master's programs Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Doctoral program Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) On the job experience Co-operative education (Co-op) Co-operative education bridges university life and the working world. This model of experiential learning, offered through the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and the Institute for Co-operative Education, is proven to give students a competitive edge. Learn more about Co-op programs Aerospace training Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI) Students have the opportunity to join the Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI) Learn more about CIADI Technological areas The nature of electrical and computer engineering has changed significantly over the course of the careers of most engineers in the profession. Today, this discipline encompasses a remarkably diverse & fertile set of technological areas. Analog and digital electronics Computer architecture Computer-aided design and manufacturing of VLSI/ULSI Intelligent robotic systems Computer-based control systems More... Telecommunications and computer networking Wireless communication systems Signal and information processing and multimedia systems Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) Electromagnetic and electromechanical systems Data storage systems Embedded systems Distributed computing Mobile computing Real-time software Digital signal processing Optical data processing Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
37docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact Important contacts Title Name Office Phone E-mail Chair William E. Lynch S-EV5.163 3142 blynch@ece.concordia.ca Associate Chair Anjali Agarwal S-EV5.157 3090 aagarwal@ece.concordia.ca Department Administrator Tatyana Bobrova S-EV5.143 4493 tatyana@ece.concordia.ca Assistant to the Chair Kimberly Robin Adams S-EV5.165 3104 kim@ece.concordia.ca Graduate Program Director Abdel R. Sebak S-EV15.179 4082 abdo@ece.concordia.ca Coordinator, Graduate Programs (Ph.D.) Sheryl Tablan S-EV5.166 4154 sheryl.tablan@concordia.ca Coordinator, Graduate Programs (M.A.Sc. & M.Eng.) Diane Moffat S-EV5.168 3103 diane@ece.concordia.ca Coordinator, Comprehensive Examinations M. Omair Ahmad S-EV5.107 3075 omair@ece.concordia.ca Coordinator, Ph.D. Proposal and Seminar M. Reza Soleymani S-EV5.125 4103 msoleyma@ece.concordia.ca Undergraduate Program Director Glenn Cowan S-EV5.167 4108 gcowan@ece.concordia.ca Undergraduate Program Assistant Connie Cianciarelli S-EV5.144 3102 conniec@ece.concordia.ca Undergraduate Curriculum Director Abdelwahab Hamou-Lhadj S-EV5.213 7949 abdelw@ece.concordia.ca Co-op Director Mustafa K. Mehmet Ali S-EV5.145 8896 mustafa@ece.concordia.ca Coordinator, Capstone Projects Chunyan Wang S-EV5.121 3120 chunyan@ece.concordia.ca Engineer in Residence Dmitry Rozhdestvenskiy S-H851.02 3106 dmitry@ece.concordia.ca TA coordinator Tyler Trezise S-H851.01 3157 Tyler@encs.concordia.ca Find us Contact us Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering 514-848-2424 ext. 3100 Find an ECE staff member Find an ECE faculty member Location 1515 St. Catherine St. W. Room  EV-05.139 Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 Mailing address Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West, EV05.139 Montral, Qubec, Canada, H3G 1M8 Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
38docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services Integral to all stages of our students learning, our state-of-the-art labs contain industry-level hardware and software. Teaching labs From Nanotechnology to Optoelectronics, our undergraduate laboratories have been substantially upgraded, modernized and expanded. Learn more Computer facilities Besides the teaching labs available Faculty wide, a number of specialized laboratories are available to address the particular needs of Electrical and Computer Engineering programs. Learn more Utilities & tools From IT help to advising to career resources, we're here to help with a wide range of services. Learn more Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
39docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition November 26, 2014, 10:00 AM – 3:00 PM English description is found below. Le Service Environnement, Sant et Scurit (ESS), en collaboration avec Fisher Scientific, vous convie  un forum en Sant & Scurit. Plusieurs fournisseurs de produits et services prsenteront leurs plus rcents quipements de scurit et rpondront  toutes questions touchant les meilleures pratiques de travail scuritaires dans les laboratoires, les studios et les ateliers. Trois confrences en franais seront offertes par des experts en la matire: Protection des Mains (11 h), Travail en Espaces Clos & Travail en Hauteur (13 h) et Protection Respiratoire (14 h). Cette exposition est gratuite et offerte  tous les membres de la communaut universitaire. Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S), in collaboration with Fisher Scientific, is hosting a Health & Safety Exhibition. Several suppliers will display their latest safety equipment and answer any questions concerning best safe work practices in laboratories, studios, and workshops. Experts will offer conferences  in French , namely on Hand Protection (11 a.m.), Confined Spaces and Fall Protection (1 p.m) and Respiratory Protection (2 p.m.). This exposition is free and open to all members of the university community. Where Room Atrium, Engineering and Visual Arts Complex  (1515 St. Catherine W.), Sir George William Campus Cost This event is free Organizer Daniel Pag Organization Environmental Health and Safety Website Environmental Health and Safety website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 4408 Category Workshops & seminars Export event CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
40docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Get the flu shot Book your appointment today to protect yourself and others from the flu November 26, 2014, 9:00 AM – 3:30 PM The health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year. Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe. Flu vaccine clinics start November 18. Come by  Health Services  or drop by the weekly  Healthy YOU at CU information tables  to discuss your questions and concerns with a nurse or health promotion specialist. Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from  WebMD Check out the  Health Services flu clinic schedule ! Where Room AD-307, Administration Building  (7141 Sherbrooke W.), Loyola Campus Cost Free to those who meet the criteria Organization Health Services Website Health Services website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 5276 Category Other events Export event Other Dates November 18, 2014 November 19, 2014 November 21, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
41docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Our department explores diverse research areas and our faculty members devote themselves to several professional areas of expertise. Research areas Researchers Professional activities Our faculty members have been heavily involved in a variety of professional activities including organizing national and international conferences, serving on editorial boards of journals, scholarship selection committees and the IEEE Montreal Section, reviewing journal papers and grant applications. Recent publications Browse a selection of recent publications from our department. Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
42docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs > Computer Engineering (BEng) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Computer Engineering (BEng) Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) Why study computer engineering? Without computer hardware and software, there would be no smart phones, DVD players and digital recorders and critical systems in airplane cockpits and modern cars, or computerized medical devices.  As a computer engineer, your knowledge of computer architecture, digital electronics, circuits and digital communication will lead to innovations or bring about another information revolution. Choose to specialize in   Avionics and Embedded Systems or create your own path based on electives that suit your interests.  Our state-of-the-art labs designed for programming in assembly language, digital systems and high-performance computing will give you experience with the tools you will use in the field. Through labs, lectures and projects, youll also: Study mathematics and engineering science Learn programming methodology to design data structures and algorithms Learn to resolve issues of system interfaces and integration Design embedded computing and communication systems for high-performance applications, such as a small, unmanned aircraft Our program is accredited by  Engineers Canada  and youll graduate eligible to become a registered professional engineer. Program details Program options & degree requirements A Bachelor of Engineering degree takes a minimum of four years (120 credits) of full-time study,  depending on your academic background . Courses in the program are in three main areas: Engineering fundamentals (includes courses on engineering economics, health and safety and professional practice); Computer engineering fundamentals (includes courses on programming methodology, signals and systems, data structures and organization and more) Technical electives in computer engineering, as outlined below. Options Students may choose from two elective options: Avionics and Embedded Systems Option Credits chosen from the Computer Engineering electives list Learn more about these options and see full degree requirements . Admission requirements Applicants from Qubec institutions : Cegep Students including Three-Year Technical DEC: CHEM-101 or 202-NYA; MATH-103 or 201-NYA  and  203 or 201-NYB  and  105 or 201-NYC PHYS-101 or 203-NYA  and  201 or 203-NYB Applicants from institutions outside Qubec : Calculus I and II, Linear Algebra, Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism, General Chemistry I Particular attention is paid to grades in mathematics, sciences and courses applicable to the intended program of study. Applicants who do not meet the minimum requirements will be reviewed holistically. *Notes: Students will be required to take and complete all prerequisite program requirements during their first year of study. Any missing prerequisites will be added onto the program at Concordia. Applicants from a three-year technical DEC may be eligible for transfer credits based on course equivalencies. Minimum of 65% for exemptions for Math and Physics. Students with grades of less than 65% in prerequisite courses will be asked to repeat those courses in addition to the program. Minimum Cut-off Averages (Minimum Cut-Off Averages: Should be used as indicators. Data  may change  depending on the quality of the application pool ) Cegep: Overall CRC 24.00 Canadian/U.S. High Schools & International Secondary Schools: 80% or B- equivalent External Transfers:   Minimum 2.5 GPA  (Transfer credits may be considered on a course-by-course basis or by challenge exams.) International Bacc. (IB): A minimum total of 27 points and completion of mathematics and sciences at the Higher Level Bacc. Franais: Overall 11/20  Completion of Srie S (Sciences) Make sure you also meet  Concordia's general minimum admission requirements . Application deadlines We consider complete applications  year round . We give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines, but we do consider  late applications  if places  are still available . You've sent your application from: Fall term deadline Winter term deadline Inside Canada March 1 ( Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check  program availability . November 1 ( Not all programs are available for this term. Please check  program availability . Outside Canada  (International) February 1 September 1 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice. Learn more about the  application assessment period and academic timetable . Course curriculum Core courses Engineering core Computer Engineering core Electives Avionics and Embedded Systems Option Core See full curriculum details in the Undergraduate Calendar Sample classes Computer Architecture and Design Microprocessor Systems Data Structures and Algorithms Digital Systems Design See all classes & read course descriptions Course sequences Regular September entry Regular January entry Co-op - September entry Avionics and Embedded Systems - September entry Avionics and Embedded Systems - January entry Avionics and Embedded Systems Co-op - September entry First year for Mature Entry and Extended Credit Co-op program The Engineering Co-op program gives you the chance to complete  paid work terms  that last 12 to 16 weeks. As a Co-op student, you will play a large role in testing software packages designed and implemented by engineers. You may also: Design, build and test computing systems Design and implement software systems Develop and maintain databases Read more about the Computer Engineering Co-op program Sample projects Develop a video game system that runs on a programmable chip (FPGA) Program an autonomous personal-service robot Design an embedded computing and communication system to  control multiple small, unmanned aircraft flying in formation Learn more about final-year Capstone projects After your degree Computer engineering alumni have established careers in a range of computing fields, including aerospace avionics, real-time embedded systems, communication systems, software systems and computer architecture and hardware. Some have been hired by: Bombardier CAE Inc. The Canadian Space Agency CGI Ajilon Consulting Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) How to apply Key resources ECE course descriptions ECE course sequences Class schedules Tuition fee calculator Financial aid & awards Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
43docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs > Electrical Engineering (BEng) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Electrical Engineering (BEng) Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) Why study electrical engineering? Control energy with a flip of a switch. Design next-generation microchips or flight control systems. Electrical engineers build electrical and electronic devices and systems that we depend on every day  whether they are very small (like the microchips in our cell phones) or very large (like the power grids or charging stations for electric cars). Choose to specialize in Electronics/VLSI, Telecommunications, Power and Renewable Energy orAvionics and Control or create your own path based on electives that suit your interests. Our state-of-the-art labs for digital electronics, electric power systems circuits and digital communications will give you experience with the tools youll use in the field. Through labs, lectures and projects, youll also: Study mathematics and engineering science Design circuits and electronics systems Analyze signals and design systems to control a robot, extract information and transmit Work in a Co-op program  and get real world experience in the microelectronics, telecommunications and power industries Our program is accredited by  Engineers Canada  and youll graduate eligible to become a registered professional engineer. Program details Program options & degree requirements A Bachelor of Engineering degree takes a minimum of four years (120 credits) of full-time study,  depending on your academic background . Courses in the program are in three main areas: Engineering fundamentals (includes courses on engineering economics, health and safety and professional practice); Electrical engineering fundamentals (includes courses on programming methodology, electronics, telecommunications and more) Technical electives in electrical engineering, as outlined below. Options Students may choose to take one of five elective options: Electronics/VLSI Option Telecommunications Option Power and Renewable Energy Option Avionics and Control Option Credits chosen from the Electrical Engineering electives list. Learn more about these options and see full degree requirements. Admission requirements Applicants from Qubec institutions : Cegep Students including Three-Year Technical DEC : CHEM-101 or 202-NYA; MATH-103 or 201-NYA  and  203 or 201-NYB  and  105 or 201-NYC PHYS-101 or 203-NYA  and  201 or 203-NYB Applicants from institutions outside Qubec : Calculus I and II, Linear Algebra, Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism, General Chemistry I Particular attention is paid to grades in mathematics, sciences and courses applicable to the intended program of study. Applicants who do not meet the minimum requirements will be reviewed holistically. *Notes : Students will be required to take and complete all prerequisite program requirements during their first year of study. Any missing prerequisites will be added onto the program at Concordia. Applicants from a three-year technical DEC may be eligible for transfer credits based on course equivalencies. Minimum of 65% for exemptions for Math and Physics. Students with grades of less than 65% in prerequisite courses will be asked to repeat those courses in addition to the program. Minimum Cut-off Averages (Minimum Cut-Off Averages: Should be used as indicators. Data  may change  depending on the quality of the application pool ) Cegep: Overall CRC 24.00 Canadian/U.S. High Schools & International Secondary Schools: 80% or B- equivalent External Transfers:   Minimum 2.5 GPA  (Transfer credits may be considered on a course-by-course basis or by challenge exams.) International Bacc. (IB): A minimum total of 27 points and completion of mathematics and sciences at the Higher Level Bacc. Franais: Overall 11/20  Completion of Srie S (Sciences) Make sure you also meet Concordia's general minimum admission requirements. Application deadlines We consider complete applications  year round . We give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines, but we do consider  late applications  if places  are still available . You've sent your application from: Fall term deadline Winter term deadline Inside Canada March 1 ( Certain programs have extended their deadlines. Please check  program availability . November 1 ( Not all programs are available for this term. Please check  program availability . Outside Canada  (International) February 1 September 1 We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice. Learn more about the  application assessment period and academic timetable . Course curriculum Core course groups Engineering core Electrical Engineering core Elective course options Electronics/VLSI Option Telecommunications Option Power and Renewable Energy Option Avionics and Control Option Credits chosen from the Electrical Engineering electives list. Learn more about course lists & curriculum in the Undergraduate Calendar . Sample classes Techniques in Electromagnetic Compatibility Wireless Communication Renewable Energy Systems Real-time Computer Control Systems See all classes & read course descriptions in the Undergraduate Calendar . Course sequences See the course sequence for each option by semester of entry into the program . Co-op program The Engineering Co-op program gives you the chance to complete  paid work terms  that last 12 to 16 weeks.  As a Co-op student, you will work for engineering firms where you may: Design and code embedded systems Develop, test and integrate telecom solutions Design and validate a video cards programmable circuits Read more about the Electrical Engineering Co-op program Sample projects Build an FM wireless receiver Design a solar home electric vehicle charger Develop a wind energy conversion system Learn more about final-year Capstone projects After your degree Electrical engineering alumni have established careers in a range of fields, including aerospace, avionics and robotics, telecommunications, image and video processing, digital security, and power electronics and systems. Some have been hired by: Bombardier CAE Inc. Ericsson Hydro-Quebec Miranda Technologies Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) How to apply Key resources ECE course descriptions ECE course sequences Class schedules Tuition fee calculator Financial aid & awards Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
44docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs > Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Doctorate (PhD) Why pursue a doctorate in electrical and computer engineering? The Doctor of/Doctorate in Philosophy program leads to the highest degree offered by the Faculty and is designed to provide students an opportunity to obtain the greatest possible expertise in their chosen field through intensive research. Advancement of analytical and/or experimental knowledge through a combination of specialized courses and a research thesis under the supervision of an experienced researcher forms the main component of the doctoral program. Where possible, research of interest to industry is encouraged. The objective of the PhD program is to educate highly qualified researchers required for the expansion of fundamental knowledge and technological innovation through research and development, as well as the needs of institutions of higher learning. See faculty research interests Program details Degree requirements Requirements for the Degree Credits.  A fully-qualified candidate entering the doctoral program with a masters degree is required to complete a minimum of 90 credits. A candidate admitted beyond the bachelors level is required to complete a minimum of 106 credits. Candidates admitted with a masters degree in a cognate discipline, or if they need additional knowledge in an area pertinent to their research, will, in general, be required to complete more than the minimum number of credits. Students may not credit any undergraduate equivalent course towards the requirements of a 90-credit or 106-credit PhD program without the permission of their supervisor and of the Graduate Program Director. Residence.  For candidates admitted with a masters degree, the minimum period of residence is two years of full-time study or the equivalent in part-time study. Part-time students may be required by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, upon the recommendation of the supervisory committee, to carry out a portion of their research on a full-time basis. Where a candidate has been admitted with a bachelors degree, the minimum period of residence is 36 months of full-time study after completion of the bachelors degree. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer credit for courses taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into their program. A course submitted for transfer credit must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Courses.  Students admitted on the basis of a masters degree will normally be required to complete a minimum of 12 credits in course work. A student admitted on the basis of a bachelors degree will normally be required to complete a minimum of 28 credits in course work. Students must also successfully complete the PhD seminar ENCS 8011 (2 credits). Each students program must be approved by a supervisory committee consisting of three members of faculty, including the students research supervisor. This supervisory committee will also arrange for the students comprehensive examination, the presentation of the doctoral research proposal, and thesis evaluation. Comprehensive Examination.  Students must take a comprehensive examination, ENCS 8501, which may be both written and oral. Normally the comprehensive examination is taken when course work has been completed and within 12 (24) months after the first registration as a full-time (part-time) student in a PhD program. Students will be assessed on the basis of written and oral examinations of fundamentals related to their field of research. The comprehensive examination will normally be administered by a committee (the Comprehensive Examination Committee) consisting of the supervisory committee, at least one member external to the candidates program and other members appointed at the discretion of the supervisory committee. Students who fail this examination are permitted to take it a second time in the following term. Students failing a second time are withdrawn from the program. Students should consult the program regarding specific examination procedures and requirements. Doctoral Research Proposal.  Upon successful completion of the comprehensive examination, students must pass the doctoral research proposal ENCS 8511 (6 credits), within 18 (36) months after the first registration as a full-time (part-time) student in a PhD program, before they are admitted to candidacy for the PhD degree. Students will be assessed on the basis of written and oral presentations that must include: (i) a critical review of previous work relevant to the subject of the thesis, and (ii) a detailed research plan of action and expected milestones. Students are required to defend their doctoral research proposal before a committee that will normally be comprised of the same members as the Comprehensive Examination Committee. Students must demonstrate the viability of their project and their capacity to undertake doctoral thesis research. The proposal may be accepted, returned for modifications, or rejected. The rejection of a proposal will result in the students withdrawal from the program. A student whose proposal is accepted will be admitted to candidacy for the PhD. Thesis.  Students are required to plan and carry out a suitable research, development, or design project, which leads to an advance in knowledge. The student must submit a thesis based upon this work and defend it in an oral examination. For purposes of registration, this work will be designated ENGR 8911 or COMP 8901: Doctoral Research and Thesis (70 credits). Theses will be examined by a committee consisting of the students supervisory committee, an external examiner, and other examiners as approved by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee and the Dean of Graduate Studies. Cross-Registration.  A student in the program wishing to take courses under the cross-registration scheme must first obtain approval of the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. (See Inter-University Agreement in  Graduate Registration  section). Time Limit.  All work for a doctoral degree must be completed within 18 terms (6 years) of full-time study or 24 terms (8 years) of part-time study from the time of original registration in the program. Admission requirements Admission Requirements.  To be considered for admission on a full-time basis, applicants normally must hold a masters degree or equivalent with high standing in engineering or computer science, or in a cognate discipline. Holders of bachelors degree will, in general, be considered for admission to a masters program only. After completion of a minimum of two terms of full-time study, they may, upon application, be considered by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee for admission to a PhD program. To be considered for admission on a part-time basis, applicants must hold a masters degree with high standing in engineering, computer science or a cognate discipline. Applicants should understand that admission is contingent not only upon a superior academic record, but also on the availability of a research supervisor, of relevant programs of study and research, as well as adequate laboratory and library facilities. Where applicable, an ability to write programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for appropriate courses. Admission to this program also requires the candidate meet  English proficiency requirements . Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum Sample classes Doctoral Seminar in Electrical Engineering Topics in Electrical Engineering Advanced Digital Communications Fault-Tolerant Distributed Systems Curriculum To see curriculum requirements, please visit the section above on  degree requirements . View all courses and descriptions in the Graduate Calendar . Faculty research interests ECE produces a high level of research activity that benefits from more than 1.5 million dollars in annual funding. Faculty members are involved in eleven areas of research: Systems, control and robotics Circuits and systems; communications Computer communications and protocols Signal processing High performance architecture Software engineering; VLSI systems Microelectronics Microwave and optoelectronics Antennas and electromagnetic compatibility Power electronics and adjustable speed drives Learn more about department research . Financial support Graduate funding is available in various forms. Teaching Assistant (TA) assignments are awarded to qualified graduate students (PhD, MASc, MEng). The basic requirements are technical knowledge and good communication skills as demonstrated by past experience and academic record. Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) How to apply Key resources ECE course descriptions Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Program contacts Program Director Abdel R. Sebak Program Coordinator Sheryl Tablan Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
45docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs > Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Master of Applied Science (MASc) Why pursue a Master's in electrical and computer engineering? This program of Master of in Applied Science is designed to provide students with an opportunity to strengthen, in some specific area or areas, the knowledge gained at the undergraduate level, and to provide a significant introduction to research. It will appeal primarily to the student interested in full-time study. The Master of Applied Science (MASc) program is intended for students who are interested in pursuing advanced studies and research at the postgraduate level, including a thesis. Students who wish to have the option of continuing on to a PhD should enroll in the MASc program. Practising engineers who wish to follow a course-based program should  apply to the MEng instead . See faculty research interests Program details Program options & degree requirements Options Depending on individual department requirements, students may choose to do one or more projects as part of their program.  Read more about projects below . Requirements for the Degree Credits.  A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete successfully a minimum of 45 credits. For specific program requirements, refer to the relevant departmental entry in the following pages. Each individual program of study must be approved by the students department and the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. Transfer Credits . Student may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than eight credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credits must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Effective 2013/1 summer terms, transfers between all ENCS Masters programs will be considered option changes. All course grades ( A+ ,  A ,  A- ,  B+ ,  B ,  B- ,  C ,  F , and  Fail/Absent  ( F/ABS ) and any of their notations, e.g.,  REPT ,  REPL ,  /IP ,  /INC , etc.) for approved courses from the original program are transferred to the new option and included in the GPA. Courses with  DISC ,  MED ,  PEND , and  REJ  are not transferred. Cross-Registration . A student in the program wishing to take courses under the cross-registration scheme must first obtain approval of the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. (See Inter-University Agreement in  Graduate Registration  section) Thesis . Students must complete a 29-credit thesis as part of their degree requirements. The thesis must represent the results of the students independent work after admission to the program. The proposed topic for the thesis, together with a brief statement outlining the proposed method of treatment, and the arrangement made for faculty supervision, must be approved by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. For purposes of registration, this work will be designated as ENGR 8901. The thesis will be evaluated by the students supervisor(s), and at least two examiners appointed by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, one of whom shall be external to the students department. Time Limit . All work for a masters/magisteriate degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (4 years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 term (5 years). Admission requirements Admission Requirements.  Applicants to the MASc program should hold a bachelors degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Consideration will also be given to candidates with a degree in a cognate area with high standing; such students may be required to enrol in an extended program. In particular, applicants with a bachelors degree in architecture will be considered for the MASc in Building Engineering. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for a course prescribed by the Graduate Program Director. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements. Admission to this program also requires the candidate meet  English proficiency requirements . Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum Curriculum Students must complete 45 credits as shown below. Courses.  A minimum of 16 credits chosen from the  Engineering Courses  section, approved by the students supervisor and either the Graduate Program Director or the chair of the department. Thesis . 29 credits. Course descriptions View course descriptions Faculty research interests ECE produces a high level of research activity that benefits from more than 1.5 million dollars in annual funding. Faculty members are involved in eleven areas of research: Systems, control and robotics Circuits and systems; communications Computer communications and protocols Signal processing High performance architecture Software engineering; VLSI systems Microelectronics Microwave and optoelectronics Antennas and electromagnetic compatibility Power electronics and adjustable speed drives Learn more about department research . Financial support Graduate funding is available in various forms. Teaching Assistant (TA) assignments are awarded to qualified graduate students (PhD, MASc, MEng). The basic requirements are technical knowledge and good communication skills as demonstrated by past experience and academic record. Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) How to apply Key resources ECE course descriptions Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Program contacts Program Director Abdel R. Sebak Program Coordinator Diane Moffatt Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
46docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs > Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Master of Engineering (MEng) Why pursue a Master's in electrical and computer engineering? This program of Master in Engineering   is designed to provide practicing engineers with an opportunity to strengthen and extend the knowledge they have obtained at the undergraduate level, to develop their design skills, and to enhance their ability to present technical material in written form. This program is a  course-based  master's degree, Students who wish to have the option of continuing on to a Ph.D. should enroll in the  MASc program  instead of the MEng program. Program details Program options & degree requirements Requirements for the Degree Credits . A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete successfully a minimum of 45 credits. For specific program requirements, refer to the relevant departmental entry in the following pages. Each individual program of study must be approved by the students department. Transfer Credits . Student may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than 12 credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credits must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Effective 2013/1 summer terms, transfers between all ENCS Masters programs will be considered option changes. All course grades ( A+ ,  A ,  A- ,  B+ ,  B ,  B- ,  C ,  F , and  Fail/Absent  ( F/ABS ) and any of their notations, e.g.,  REPT ,  REPL ,  /IP ,  /INC , etc.) for approved courses from the original program are transferred to the new option and included in the GPA. Courses with  DISC ,  MED ,  PEND , and  REJ  are not transferred. Other Courses . A limited number of credits are recognized toward the Master of/Magisteriate in Engineering degree for courses taken under the heading Impact of Engineering on Society and for cognate courses taken from the MBA program. For details refer to the relevant departmental entry in the following pages. Cross-Registration . A student in the program wishing to take courses under the cross-registration scheme must first obtain approval of the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. Time Limit . All work for a masters/magisteriate degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (4 years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 term (5 years). Options Depending on individual department requirements, students may choose to do  one or more projects  as part of their program. Admission requirements Admission Requirements . Applicants to the MEng Program must hold a bachelors degree in engineering or equivalent with high standing. Applicants with a bachelors degree in architecture with high engineering content may also be considered for the MEng program. Such students will be required to enrol in an extended program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee will determine the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require an applicant to take specified undergraduate courses in order to qualify for acceptance. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. An ability to write simple programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for the appropriate course. This course will be taken in addition to regular degree requirements. Admission to this program also requires the candidate meet  English proficiency requirements . Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum Students must complete 45 credits distributed as follows: A minimum of 36 credits consisting of 6000 numbered courses chosen from Topic Areas: E01, E03, E10, E42, E43, E44, E45, E47, E48, F03, and ELEC/COEN courses in E02. These credits should be structured as follows: Two concentrations from Topic Areas: E03, E42, E43, E44, E45, E47, E48, F03 should be selected. In each of these two Topic Areas, at least 12 credits should be taken. The remaining nine (9) credits must be obtained by selecting one of the following: ENCS 6931, a 9-credit industrial training course; OR A 4-credit complementary course from Topic Area E09 together with ENGR 6991, a 5-credit project course. OR A 4-credit complementary course from Topic Area E09, the 1-credit seminar course ELEC 6961, together with one 4-credit course from the Engineering Courses section chosen with the permission of the Department on a case-by-case basis. Topic areas E01 - MATHEMATICAL METHODS ENCS 6021 Engineering Analysis ENCS 6111 Numerical Methods ENCS 6141 Probabalistic Methods in Design ENCS 6161 Probability and Stochastic Processes ENCS 6181 Optimization Techniques (*) ENCS 6191 Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic E03 - SYSTEMS AND CONTROL ELEC 6041 Large-scale Control Systems ELEC 6061 Real-time Computer Control Systems ELEC 6091 Discrete Event Systems ENGR 6071 Switched and Hybrid Control Systems ENGR 6131 Linear Systems (*) ENGR 6141 Nonlinear Systems ENGR 7121 Analysis and Design of Linear Multivariable Systems ENGR 7131 Adaptive Control ENGR 7181 Digital Control of Dynamic Systems MECH 6681 Dynamics and Control of Nonholonomic Systems E10 - ROBOTICS ENGR 6411 Robotic Manipulators I: Mechanics (*) ENGR 7401 Robotic Manipulators II: Control E42 - COMMUNICATIONS ELEC 6111 Detection and Estimation Theory ELEC 6131 Error Detecting and Correcting Codes ELEC 6141 Wireless Communications ELEC 6151 Information Theory and Source Coding ELEC 6171 Modeling and Analysis of Telecommunications Networks ELEC 6181 Real-time and Multimedia Communication over Internet ELEC 6831 Digital Communications ELEC 6841 Advanced Digital Communications ELEC 6851 Introduction to Telecommunications Networks ELEC 6861 Higher Layer Telecommunications Protocols ELEC 6871 Fiber-Optics Communication Systems and Networks ELEC 6881 Fundamentals and Applications of MIMO Communications ELEC 7151 Broadband Communications Networks ENCS 6811 Optical Networking: Architectures and Protocols E43 - MICRO-DEVICES AND FABRICATION PROCESSES ELEC 6221 Solid State Devices 9 (*) ELEC 6231 Design of Integrated Circuit Components (*) ELEC 6241 VLSI Process Technology (*) ELEC 6251 Microtransducer Process Technology ELEC 6261 Optical Devices for High-Speed Communications ELEC 6271 Nanoscience and Nanotechnology: Opto-Electronic Devices ELEC 6281 Principles of Solid State Nanodevices E44 - FIELDS, WAVES AND OPTOELECTRONICS ELEC 6301 Advanced Electromagnetics ELEC 6311 Radiation and Scattering of Waves ELEC 6341 Antennas (*) ELEC 6351 Modern Antenna Theory ELEC 6361 Acoustics (*) ELEC 6371 Design of Wireless RF Systems ELEC 6381 Techniques in Electromagnetic Compatibility ELEC 6391 Microwave Engineering (*) E45 - ELECTRICAL POWER ENGINEERING ELEC 6411 Power Electronics I (*) ELEC 6421 Renewable Energy Systems (*) ELEC 6431 Advanced Electrical Machines and Drives ELEC 6461 Power Electronics II ELEC 6471 Hybrid Electric Vehicle Power System Design and Control (*) ELEC 6481 Computer-aided Analysis of Power Electronic Systems ELEC 6491 Controlled Electric Drives ELEC 7441 Design of Power Electronic Circuits ELEC 7451 Power System Compensation E47 - SIGNAL PROCESSING ELEC 6601 Digital Signal Processing ELEC 6611 Digital Filters ELEC 6621 Digital Waveform Compression ELEC 6631 Digital Video Processing ELEC 6641 Two-dimensional Signal and Image Processing ELEC 6651 Adaptive Signal Processing E48 - COMPUTER ENGINEERING COEN 6211 Biological Computing and Synthetic Biology (*) COEN 6311 Software Engineering COEN 6312 Model-Driven Software Engineering COEN 6321 Applied Genetic and Evolutionary Systems COEN 6331 Neural Networks COEN 6341 Embedded System Modelling COEN 6611 Real-time Systems COEN 6711 Microprocessors and Their Applications COEN 6721 Fault-Tolerant Distributed Systems COEN 6741 Computer Architecture and Design COEN 7311 Protocol Design and Validation COEN 7741 Advanced Computer Architecture E02 - DEVELOPMENTS IN ENGINEERING Note:  Subject matter will vary from term to term and from year to year. Students may re-register for these courses, providing that the course content has changed. Changes in content will be indicated by the letter following the course number, e.g., CIVI 691A, CIVI 691B, etc. ENCS 591 Topics in Engineering and Computer Science ENCS 691 Topics in Engineering and Computer Science I ENGR 691 Topics in Engineering I ENGR 791 Topics in Engineering II BLDG 691 Topics in Building Engineering I BLDG 791 Topics In Building Engineering II CIVI 691 Topics in Civil Engineering I CIVI 791 Topics In Civil Engineering II COEN 691 Topics In Computer Engineering I COEN 791 Topics In Computer Engineering II ELEC 691 Topics in Electrical Engineering I ELEC 791 Topics in Electrical Engineering II INDU 691 Topics in Industrial Engineering INSE 691 Topics in Information Systems Engineering MECH 691 Topics In Mechanical Engineering I MECH 791 Topics in Mechanical Engineering II Course descriptions View course descriptions in the Graduate Calendar Financial support Graduate funding is available in various forms. Teaching Assistant (TA) assignments are awarded to qualified graduate students (PhD, MASc, MEng). The basic requirements are technical knowledge and good communication skills as demonstrated by past experience and academic record. Project ENGR 6971 Project and Report I  (4 credits). The purpose of the project report is to provide students in the MEng program with an opportunity to carry out independent project work and to present it in an acceptable form. The project may consist of the following: A theoretical study of an engineering problem. A design and/or development project conducted at Concordia. A design and/or project conducted as part of the students full-time employment, providing the students employer furnishes written approval for the pursuit and reporting of the project. An ordered and critical exposition of the literature on an appropriate topic in engineering. Before registration for a project course, a student must obtain written consent of a faculty member who will act as advisor for the report. A form for this consent is available in the Office of the Dean of Engineering and Computer Science. A four-credit report is due on the last day of classes of the term (fall, winter, summer) in which it is registered. Students are expected to have a preliminary version of their report approved by their advisor before its final submission. On or before the submission deadline, students must submit three copies of the report to their advisors, who will grade the report. One copy of the report will be returned to the students, one retained by the advisors, and one by the department. The report, including an abstract, must be suitably documented and illustrated, should be at least 5000 words in length, must be typewritten on one side of 21.5 cm by 28 cm white paper of quality, and must be enclosed in binding. Students are referred to  Form and Style: Thesis, Report, Term Papers, fourth edition by Campbell and Ballou, published by Houghton Migglin . ENGR 6981 Project and Report II  (4 credits) ENGR 6991 Project and Report III  (5 credits) With the permission of their Department, students in the MEng Program may register for these project courses if they wish to carry out a more extended project, or if they wish to complete further projects. Each project course requires prior approval by the faculty member who has accepted to supervise the work. Students working on a multi-course project must register for the corresponding project courses in successive terms. For ENGR 6991 and multi-course projects, the report is due on the last day of classes of the last term in which they are registered. In the case of ENGR 6991 and multi-course project, three copies of the report must be submitted to the advisor on or before this deadline, and students are also required to make an oral presentation to the evaluators, and other members of the community. The report will be evaluated by the advisor and at least one other Engineering and Computer Science member of the Faculty. Industrial Experience Option Industrial Experience Option in the Master of Engineering Applicants to the Master of Engineering may apply to the Industrial Experience option in the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. Students should indicate their choice on the application form. The Institute for Co-operative Education will help them with resumes, cover letters and interview techniques. The suggested schedule is as follows: fall and winter terms will be dedicated to course work followed by one term in industry, culminating with two terms in University for the remaining course work. The industrial experience term will be noted on the student transcript/record. Students apply to the Industrial Experience option as early as possible, preferably when they enter the program. It is preferable to be bilingual in French and English if they wish to work in Quebec. Students who lack good language skills and still want to be part of the program should improve their language skills prior to final acceptance. Admission Criteria Students need to be enrolled in the Industrial Experience option at least the semester before going on a work term. They begin applying for jobs the semester prior to the work term. Previous work experience cannot be used toward credit for the ENCS 6931. Students should have good grades (greater than a CGPA of 3.40) for the masters program, be full-time and have good communication skills. A Canadian work permit is required. The Departmental Co-op Program Director will recommend final acceptance to the Industrial Experience option. ENCS 6931 Industrial Stage and Training  (9 credits) Prerequisite:  Completion of at least twenty credits in the program and permission of the Departmental Co-op Program Director. This is an integral component of the Industrial Experience option that is to be completed under the supervision of an experienced engineer/computer scientist in the facilities of a participating company (a Canadian work permit is required). Each student receives an assessment from the Departmental Co-op Program Director in consultation with the industry supervisor and the faculty advisor. Grading is on a pass/fail basis based on a proposal, monthly progress reports, a final report and a presentation. Learn more about the Industrial Experience option . Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) How to apply Key resources ECE course descriptions Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Program contacts Program Director Abdel R. Sebak Program Coordinator Diane Moffatt Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
47docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > About the department Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the department As an innovative and dynamic department in the faculty of Engineering and Computer Science (ENCS), the Department of Electrical and Computer engineering educates students for professional careers through our  quality academic programs , top-notch  faculty , professional  technical staff  and devoted  administration staff . Meet our faculty Meet our staff Job opportunities Related Links Message from the Chair News & Events Important Contacts Office Hours Join the conversation Concordia Engineering @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
48docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Future students Students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > News & events > News Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn ECE news All years 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 All months January February March April May June July August September October November December All categories Arts & culture In the community Research Sports & wellness Student life Teaching University affairs Convocation preview: 5 great grads, in numbers October 15, 2014 Ted Obuchowicz: Learning on the job September 23, 2014 10 District 3 innovators put their skills to the test June 4, 2014 Excellence in Electrical and Computer Engineering May 23, 2014 Faculty Accolades, February 2014 February 5, 2014 Spiri - A robot in sync with music January 17, 2014 Teaching Excellence and Staff Recognition Awards December 2, 2013 Faculty Accolades, October 2013 October 28, 2013 Summer 2013 Accolades August 21, 2013 Convocation 2013 June 19, 2013 ECE Design Project Awards May 31, 2013 March Accolades April 4, 2013 Teaching Excellence and Staff Recognition Awards December 3, 2012 Filtering spam November 20, 2012 Faculty Accolades for November October 31, 2012 Provost's Circle of Distinction June 26, 2012 ECE outreach at Marianopolis April 20, 2012 Visit from Hydro-Qubec March 30, 2012 Space Concordia sees great results at national competition March 5, 2012 Concordia professor selected to head IEEE Canada October 24, 2011 Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
49docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Student resources Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student resources Find course sequences and schedules, extra-curricular and professional opportunities, advising and support in the ECE department and beyond! Course & lab info Get involved Services & support Undergraduate Undergraduate course sequences Undergraduate course descriptions Capstone project information Need help? Contact the  Undergraduate Program Assistant Graduate Graduate registration information Graduate course descriptions Teaching assistant application Need help? Contact the  MEng & MASc Program Assistant  or the  PhD Program Assistant . Academic forms & advising Student requests, readmission forms, transfer requests and more can all be found at SAS. Visit SAS now Labs ECE lab info ECE lab schedules ENCS-wide lab info ENCS lab schedules ENCS door codes Get involved in department activities and get a head start on your career with hands-on experience! ECA student association Professional associations and resources Capstone Projects Teaching assistant application From  financial support  to all your  campus services , Concordia's new student hub for both undergraduate and graduate students hub has everything you need to thrive. Visit the central student hub Concordia student notices November 10, 2014 Notice to invigilators / Avis aux surveillants dexamen November 14, 2014 Shuttle bus GPS to be upgraded 2015 ECE Graduate Student Research Conference The Electrical and Computer Engineering Department is pleased to announce the First Annual ECE-GSR Conference. GSR is a unique opportunity for our graguate students... Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
50docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > About the department > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time faculty Emeritus professors Affiliate faculty Part-time faculty Abdi, Samar Agarwal, Anjali Aghdam, Amir  G. Ahmad, M. Omair Mohamed, Otmane Ait Amer, Maria Aishy Asif, Amir Cowan, Glenn Ghrayeb, Ali Hamou-Lhadj, Abdelwahab Hamouda, Walaa Zad, Shahin Hashtrudi Kabir, M. Zahangir Kahrizi, Mojtaba Kharma, Nawwaf Khendek, Ferhat Khorasani, Kash Kishk, Ahmed Liu, Yan Lopes, Luiz A. C. Lynch, William E. Mehmet Ali, Mustafa  K. Paknys, Robert Pillay, Pragasen Qiu, Dongyu Ramachandran, Venkat Raut, Rabin Rivaz, Hassan Rodrigues, Luis Sebak, Abdel R. Soleymani, M. Reza Shayan, Yousef  R. Skonieczny, Krzysztof Swamy, M.N.S. Tahar, Sofine Trajkovic, Jelena Trueman, Christopher W. Valizadeh, Pouya Wang, Chunyan Zhang, John Xiupu Zhu, Wei-Ping Al-Khalili, Asim Elhakeem, Ahmed K. Hayes, Jeremiah Plotkin, Eugene Schwelb, Otto Abdollahi, Farzaneh Agarwal, Rajeev Azizi, Seyyed Mohsen Benyamin-Seeyar, Anader Koodiani, Sadegh Farzanehi Jahinuzzaman, Shar Landsberger, Leslie M. Le-Ngoc, Tho Meski,  Nader Stateikina, Irina Gohar, Iman Davis, Donald Das, Susil Sinnig, Daniel Talla, Malleswara  Rao Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
51docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > About the department > Staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Administrative staff Name Title Ext. Office Email Adams, Kimberly Assistant to the Chair 3104 S-EV5.165 kim@ece.concordia.ca Bobrova, Tatyana Department Administrator 4493 S-EV5.143 tatyana@ece.concordia.ca Cianciarelli, Connie Undergraduate Program Assistant 3102 S-EV5.144 conniec@ece.concordia.ca Fasciano, Maria Office Assistant 3100 S-EV5.139 mariaf@encs.concordia.ca Moffat, Diane Coordinator, Graduate Programs (M.A.Sc. & M.Eng.) 3103 S-EV5.168 diane@ece.concordia.ca Tablan, Sheryl Graduate Program Coordinator (PhD) 4154 S-EV5.166 sheryl.tablan@concordia.ca Technical staff Name Title Ext. Office Email Chu, Dave Technician (I) 3095 S-H941 dave@ece.concordia.ca Landry, Jeffrey Technician (I) 3115 S-H941 jlandry@ece.concordia.ca Li, Dan Engineering Specialist 3148 S-H851.03 dan.li@concordia.ca Obuchowicz, Tadeusz Engineering Specialist 3069 S-EV5.110 ted@ece.concordia.ca Prasad, Shailesh Engineering Specialist 4106 S-EV16.189 shailesh.prasad@concordia.ca Rozhdestvenskiy, Dmitry Engineer in Residence 3106 S-H851.02 dmitry@ece.concordia.ca Trezise, Tyler Design Project Specialist 3157 S-H851.01 tyler@encs.concordia.ca Woods, Joseph Technician (I) 3096 S-EVS3.625 joe@ece.concordia.ca Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
52docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > About the department > Job opportunities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Job opportunities Openning faculty positions Strategic Hiring Position  Nanotechnology and Microsystems Engineering for Synthetic Biology.  The Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science is seeking excellent tenure-track candidates at the Assistant or Associate Professor ranks in the area of Nanotechnology and Microsystems Engineering for Synthetic Biology.   Details... Faculty Position in Power Electronics and Electric Energy .  Applicants shall hold a Ph.D. in a relevant Engineering discipline and shall possess teaching and research expertise in areas such as, but not limited to: power electronics and electric energy; electric and hybrid electric vehicles; renewable energy; mini and micro grids; electric energy storage; and electric machines and variable speed drives.  Details... Post-doctoral / Researcher Positions Post-doctoral Researcher on modeling of next-generation network processors We are looking for a post-doctoral researcher to work on modeling of next-generation network processors, starting in January 2015. The candidate must be a recent PhD in computer science or computer engineering. Expertise in algorithm design, C++ programming, and excellent communication/writing skills are required. Background in system-level modeling and network protocols is a plus. The project is funded for multiple years. The initial appointment will be for 1 year, with possibility for reappointment based on performance. Salary is commensurate with qualifications. To apply, please send copies of your CV and a recent publication to  samar@ece.concordia.ca . University Staff opportunities FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & COMPUTER SCIENCEdocContentEnd
53docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty Accolades - October Posted on October 1, 2014 | By: Laurence Miall Source:  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Peter Rigby , assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering, was one of four winners of Concordias 2014 University Research Awards. His overarching research interest is in understanding how developers collaborate to produce successful software systems. His research program is driven by a desire to determine empirically the factors that lead to the development of successful software and to adapt, apply, and validate these techniques in different settings. Glenn Cowan,  associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has won the Concordia Emerging Leadership Award. This award recognizes exceptional leadership abilities and achievement. Cowan is a member of the VLSI research group, which conducts work in the fields large scale integrated circuits  i.e. design and implementation of analog-mixed signal circuits, integrated sensors, and VLSI systems for signal processing, communications, robotics and other applications. Lyes Kadem , associate professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, won the Presidents Excellence in Teaching Award. In addition to his teaching duties, Kadem conducts research as the director of the Laboratory of Cardiovascular Fluid Dynamics. The lab researches the cardiovascular system from an engineering aspect, using engineered cardiac simulators. As for his teaching philosophy, Kadem says, I can summarize my thoughts on teaching in one line: a piece of chalk, a blackboard, and to make it simple, like my teachers taught me. Christian Moreau  in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering has been elected as President of the Thermal Spray Society of ASM International [American Society for Metals] for a two-year term. Moreau is a Tier 1 Canada Research Chair whose team develops diagnostics and modeling tools to improve coating materials and to tailor them for optimum performance in industrial applications. His work will improve energy efficiency and can boost economic growth in the aerospace sector. Govind Gopakumar  in the Centre for Engineering in Society has received a grant from the Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute, a well-established institution in international academic exchange supported by the Government of Canada and Government of India. The grant is a Partnership Development Grant for $5,000 and will support a design process to create a manifesto for inclusive buses in Bangalore, India. The Canadian Association of Composite Structures and Materials has created a new student award that bears the name of  Suong Hoa  from the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. The award is called the Professor Suong V. Hoa Student Paper Award and will be presented for the first time in a special session of the Canadian-International Composites Conference to be held in Edmonton, Alberta next summer. The prize is valued at $1,000 for the first-place winne, $500 for the second-place winner, and $250 for the third-place winner. Related Topics General interest Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
54docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Award for Dr. Hamou-Lhadj and his group at IBM Center of Advanced Studies Conference Posted on November 12, 2014 | Source:  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science CASCON 2014 - November 3rd - November 5th, 2014,  Markham, Ontario Dr. Wahab Hamou-Lhadj and his lab have won this year's People's Choice Showcase Award at theIBM Center of Advanced Studies Conference (CASCON). This was for "TotalADS: An integrated anomaly detection platform" developed in his lab. The reseachers include: Wahab Hamou-Lhadj, Concordia University, Canada Wael Khreich, Concordia University, Canada Syed Shariyar Murtaza, Concordia University, Canada Mario Couture, DRDC, Valcartier, QC, Canada This years CASCON technology showcase features more than 50 showcases from IBM, academia [including UVic, UofT, McGill, Waterloo] and industry  partners to demonstrate their latest development of advanced software technologies. See website:  https://www-927.ibm.com/ibm/cas/cascon/techshowcases.jsp CASCON  (Centre for Advanced Studies Conference) is a  Computer Science  conference hosted by  IBM Canada Software Lab. CAS Research  that occurs annually in late-October or early-November in  Markham, Ontario . The conference typically lasts 3 or 4 days.  See more  ... Related Topics technology Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
55docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Dr. Amir Ajorlou nominated for Best Ph.D.Thesis Award in Quebec Posted on June 17, 2014 | By: Tatyana Source:  Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE) Amir Ajorlou , a recently-graduated student supervised by Amir Aghdam in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has been nominated for the Best Ph.D. Thesis Award in the Province of Quebec.  His thesis was called Connectivity Preservation in Distributed Control of Multi-Agent System. Ajorlou is a two-time gold medal winner of the International Mathematical Olympiad, and the author of over 30 papers in the most prestigious journals and conferences in control systems, which to date been cited over 200 times. He obtained his Ph.D. from Concordia University in 2013, and is currently a postdoctoral research fellow at the University of Pennsylvania. Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
56docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering is concerned primarily with energy and information and their conversion/transmission in the most efficient and reliable manner. This vast field of endeavor includes many specialties and Electrical Engineers may be involved in one or more of these throughout their careers. A partial list includes: electronics, integrated circuit design, very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuit design, layout and testing, controls, robotics, system simulation, telecommunications, signal processing, computer hardware design, software design, power devices, antennas, wave guides, lasers, and optoelectronics. Explore our degree programs Computer Engineering Computer Engineering is the driving force of the information revolution and its transformation of society. Over the course of their careers, computer engineers will be called upon to meet a number of challenges, most of which cannot be imagined today. A partial list of current specialties includes: computer architecture, digital electronics, digital circuits, very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuit design, layout and testing, digital circuit testing and reliability, software design, software engineering, digital communication and computer networks. Explore our degree programs Bachelor programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Master's programs Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Doctoral program Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) On the job experience Co-operative education (Co-op) Co-operative education bridges university life and the working world. This model of experiential learning, offered through the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and the Institute for Co-operative Education, is proven to give students a competitive edge. Learn more about Co-op programs Aerospace training Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI) Students have the opportunity to join the Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI) Learn more about CIADI Technological areas The nature of electrical and computer engineering has changed significantly over the course of the careers of most engineers in the profession. Today, this discipline encompasses a remarkably diverse & fertile set of technological areas. Analog and digital electronics Computer architecture Computer-aided design and manufacturing of VLSI/ULSI Intelligent robotic systems Computer-based control systems More... Telecommunications and computer networking Wireless communication systems Signal and information processing and multimedia systems Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) Electromagnetic and electromechanical systems Data storage systems Embedded systems Distributed computing Mobile computing Real-time software Digital signal processing Optical data processing Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
57docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Facilities & services > Utilities & tools Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Utilities & tools Below you'll find a wealth of services to help you in our department. These are the most commonly sought-after services. If you're a current student, you should also check out out our  current students section  to find all the information you need. Help for faculty profile An improved way for full- and part-time faculty members to maintain their concordia.ca web presence. Update or fill out your faculty profile via a new form in the  MyConcordia Portal . Find & update the form You find the Faculty profile form on MyConcordia. Go to  MyConcordia.ca In the left-hand column choose  Alerts & profiles Click on "Faculty Profile" Find your live URL The live URL you should promote on business cards, email signatures and publications is: http://www.concordia.ca/faculty/firstname-lastname.html eg .../faculty/john-doe.html Help for undergraduate students 1. How do I register? See the  web registration guide . 2. A course is capped, what can I do? Contact  Connie Cianciarelli , Undergraduate Program Assistant. Her office is EV005.142, ext 3102. 3. I missed an exam, what can I do? See  exam regulations . 4. Where will my classes be held? Check each of your classes in the  Class Schedule . 5. I need a tutor for a course. Concordia has many  learning support options . You can also visit ECE reception at S-EV5.139. 6. I have an academic grievance. Contact  Dr. Agarwal , the Undergraduate Program Director, S-EV5.235. 7. I want to change my program. Please visit ENCS  Student Academic Services . 8. I want a transcript. Make a  transcript request . You can have it mailed to you, or pick it up at the  Birks Student Service Centre . 9. I want to withdraw from the University. Please visit the  Office of the Registrar . Help for graduate students 1. I need more information about Graduate Studies. For general information about Graduate Studies at Concordia University, program descriptions and application deadlines, please visit the  graduate programs  section of Concordia's website, or contact the  School of Graduate Studies (SGS) . If you would like information about Graduate Programs in Electrical and Computer Engineering, including faculty areas of research, please visit our  programs page . If you are an international student and have questions regarding visas or what to expect when you come to Montreal, the  International Student Office  is an invaluable resource. 2. How do I register for courses? See the  web registration guide . Looking to  apply  to Concordia University?  Learn how to apply . 3. I missed an exam, what can I do? See  exam regulations . 4. Where will my classes be held? Check each of your classes in the  Class Schedule . 5. I have an academic grievance. Please contact  Diane Moffat , the Graduate Program Assistant. Her office is at S-EV 5.168, ext. 3103. 6. I want to change my concentration or program. First, please visit ENCS  Student Academic Services . 7. I want to withdraw from the University. Please visit the  Office of the Registar . About myECE 1. Do I have an account? myECE is re-designed for the web editor and the web master only to manage and update some contents on this site. It won't be available to the staff member or a faculty member (full-time or part time) in ECE any more. 2. What can I do with myECE? Web editor can update the information about: Important Contacts. Office hours Research areas Teaching labs Publications Graduate course. Contact the web master for access . External electrical & computer engineering resources CCPE - Engineers Canada Engineers Canada is the national organization of the 12 provincial and territorial associations and ordre that regulate the practice of engineering in Canada and license the country's more than 160,000 professional engineers. On February 8, 2007, The Canadian Council of Professional Engineers' (CCPE) Board of Directors approved that CCPE take the step to begin carrying on its activities under the business name ENGINEERS CANADA. IEEE Canada IEEE Canada is the Canadian region of the international Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) - the world's largest technical professional society. Founded in 1884 by a handful of practitioners of the new electrical engineering discipline, today the Institute is comprised of more than 320,000 members who conduct and participate in activities in 147 countries. Approximately 14,000 of those members are Canadian. P.Eng. - Professional Engineer Whether working on attaining an engineering degree or you're now ready to start building your career or you're looking to hire a someone with the right education, the right experience and the right attitude-a P.Eng. is the right move. Ordre des Ingenieurs du Quebec In Quebec, the OIQ carefully monitors compliance with rules of this trade and with the professional integrity of members, while also overseeing the development of the engineering profession. This kind of work is all the more critical, as the Order has more than 53,000 members, making it the second largest of the 45 professional orders charged by the Government of Quebec with the duty of protecting the public. L'Association des Ingnieurs-conseils du Qubec L  'AICQ regroupe des firmes d'intrts privs qui offrent principalement des services d'ingnierie auxquels elles peuvent intgrer des services complmentaires. Ses membres proposent  leurs clients des technologies de pointe, ainsi que des produits et des services professionnels, dans un souci constant d'intgrit et d'impartialit. The Engineering Institute of Canada The Engineering Institute of Canada: Since 1887 Canada's Federation of Engineering Socieities "Engineering, for a prosperous, safe and renewable Canada" Canadian Federation of Engineering Students The CFES is a community strengthened and enriched by a nationally diverse engineering student body. To enhance student life, the CFES facilitates communication, the sharing of ideas, and the exchange of information between member schools. To ensure that students grow both personally and professionally, the CFES keeps abreast of the changes taking place in society affecting engineering students and the engineering profession. To promote the innovative and gifted student body, the CFES also actively promotes and showcases outstanding student achievements. Association of Consulting Engineers of Canada Founded in 1925, ACEC is the national association of consulting firms that provide engineering and other technology-based intellectual services to the built and natural environment. Member companies offer professional engineering services world wide to private sector and government clients. ACEC's mission is to promote and safeguard the business and professional interests of the Canadian consulting engineering industry in Canada and abroad. The Iron Ring - The Ritual of the Calling of an Engineer The Iron Ring has been registered and may be worn on the little finger of the working hand by any engineer who has been obligated at an authorized ceremony of the Ritual of the Calling of the Engineer. The ring symbolizes the pride which engineers have in their profession, while simultaneously reminding them of their humility. The ring serves as a reminder to the engineer and others of the engineer's obligation to live by a high standard of professional conduct. It is not a symbol of qualification as an engineer - this is determined by the provincial and territorial licensing bodies. Canada's Engineering Job Board Network Tap into Canada's largest and most dedicated engineering job board for finding exciting career opportunities. With over 10 society partners it brings the best opportunities right to you! Canadian Society for Engineering Management (CSEM) The Canadian Society for Engineering Management (CSEM) concerns itself with the wider role of the engineer in society. On the one hand it aims to represent the interests and the roles of the engineer in a multidisciplinary sense, as a natural leader in the execution of major projects and business initiatives; on the other, it strives to serve the needs of engineers who manage and direct the broadest concepts, policies and activities of an organization, in both the private and public sectors. Other useful links: Canadian Academy of Engineering PEO - Professional Engineers Ontario National Engineering Week Job Futures Submit a story Have a story idea to share? Please fill out the form below with all the relevant information. Submit a story Submit an event Want to let us know about an event at Concordia? Request that your event be added to the Daily events. Submit an event Related links Current ECE students Campus services Office of the Registrar Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
58docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Facilities & services > Teaching labs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Teaching labs COEN 212 and COEN 313: Digital Systems Design I and II Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: COEN 212 = H1029-1 COEN 313 = H913 Courses: COEN 212, COEN 313 Digital System Design I - COEN 212 AND, OR, NOT, BCD-7SEG-DECODERS, MUX, FLIP-FLOPS and more... Are these terms strange to you? If you want to learn the basics of digital logic, the COEN 212 lab will teach you.  This lab consists of a hands-on approach to learning the fundamentals of digital logic design. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . COEN 311: Computer Organization & Software Lab Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H813 Courses: COEN 311 The COEN 311 lab uses the Axiom CMM332 Microcontroller board. In this lab the students learn the basics of programming in assembly language.  The lab consists of 16 individual CMM332 microcontroller boards.  Software development tools include the Windows based AS32 assembler program and the AxIDE software which comes with a single-step debugger and download utilities. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . COEN 315: Digital Electronics Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H-859 Courses: COEN 315 The COEN 315 lab deals with the design and analysis of digital logic circuits at the transistor level.  The lab is equipped with prototyping equipment in the form of breadboards and test and measurement equipment such as oscilloscopes, multimeters, power supplies, and function generators.  Analysis of circuit performance in terms of propagation delays, noise margins, rise and fall times are performed in the lab. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . COEN 317: Microprocessor Systems Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H859 Courses: COEN 317 The microprocessor systems lab has the goal of building a complete microprocessor based system that records voice input and plays it back.  The COEN 317 lab is accessible only at the scheduled lab hours.  It is equipped with 6 stations. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . COEN 445: Communications Networks and Protocols Administrator:  Dan Li Location: H915 Courses: n the lab some network analyzers, i.g. Wireshark are installed to analysis network topologies, communications protocols basics in Local Area Networks (LANs). It can help students understand layered architecture standards (OSI and TCP/IP) and protocols. The network protocol analyzer lets students to see what\'s happening on a network at a microscopic level. It is the de facto (and often de jure) standard across many industries and educational institutions. Contact Dan Li to learn more . COEN 451: VLSI Circuit Design Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H-822 Courses: ELEC273, ELEC275,ELEC370 THE BASIC CIRCUITS & SYSTEMS LAB located in the Hall Building provides the laboratory component of the following core courses : ELEC273 ( Basic Circuit Analysis), ELEC275 (Principles of Elec.Engg.) and Modeling & Analysis of Linear Physical Systems( ELEC370). Communications Lab Administrator:  Jeffrey Landry Location: H801 Courses: ELEC363, ELEC462 THE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS LAB located in H801 in the Hall Building, provides the laboratory component of the courses ELEC363 (Fundamentals of Telecommunication Systems) and ELEC462 (Introduction to Digital Communication). The lab has a capacity of 8 stations with 2 students per station. Students submit individual reports. The labs consist of 5 experiments each , performed using the LabVolt 9400-Series Communication Lab equipment. ELEC 372: Controls Lab Administrator: Dan Li Location: H-832-6 Courses: ELEC 372 THE CONTROL SYSTEMS LAB located in H832-6 in the Hall Building, provides the laboratory component of the course ELEC372 (Fundamentals of Control Systems). ELEC372 is offered in the Fall and Winter terms. The lab has a capacity of 8 stations with 2 students per station. The lab consists of 5 experiments performed using the ECP(Educational Control Products) Model 220 Industrial Emulator servo-trainer which is used in many universities in the USA and Canada. Go  the lab website  for more details. ELEC 364: Signals and Systems II Administrator:  Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H831 Courses: ELEC 442 The ELEC 364 labs introduce the students to the MATLAB programming context. MATLAB is a very porpular and widely used programming language used in a diverse range of scientific and engineering applications.  The objective of these labs are to provide an intrductory level of understanding of MATLAB for eventual use in other courses.  Genreral purpose PCs installed with the MATLAB software are used together with either the Linux or Windows operating systems. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . ELEC 442: Digital Signal Processing Administrator:   Tadeusz Obuchowicz Location: H-861 (or any standard PC desktop lab) Courses: ELEC 442 This lab consists of sofware simulations performed using MATLAB. Contact Tadeusz Obuchowicz to learn more . Electrical Power Engineering and Power Electronics Laboratory Administrator:  Joseph Woods Location: H-943 and H-945 Courses: ELEC 331, ELEC 433, ELEC 440, ELEC 490 Phone: ext. 3096 Electrical power engineering is the discipline that deals with the generation, distribution and transformation of electrical energy.  The power engineer may work with circuits that range from a large, high-voltage system such as that operated by Hydro-Quebec to a small battery-powered converter in a cell phone. Contact Joseph Woods to learn more . Electronics laboratory Administrator:   Shailesh Prasad Location: H-855 Courses: ELEC 311 and ELEC 312 Phone: ext. 4106 This laboratory teaches the students to investigate circuits through simulation and experimentation. For simulation, the students use the student version of Pspice. The primary focus is to understand BJT and MOSFET based circuits. Some of the circuits that are assembled and simulated in ELEC 311 and 312 are, OPAMP, amplifiers, voltage regulators, current mirrors, current source, differential amplifiers, and power amplifier. Contact Shailesh Prasad to learn more . ELEC 441: Filter Design Lab Administrator:  Shailesh Prasad Location: H-855 Courses: ELEC 441 Phone: 4106 This lab is attached to ELEC 441 where the students learn about filter design. It consists of 5 lab sessions of which 3 are experimental and two are simulation. The experimental part uses opamp LM741 and OTA LM 13700. The students test their cuircuits using digital oscilloscope. The simulation part uses Pspice and Hspice. The lab manual for this course can be purchased at the Bookstore located in the LB building. Contact Shailesh Prasad to learn more . ELEC 481: Linear System Lab Administrator:  Dan Li Location: H805-3 Courses: ELEC481 Lab website This teaching lab is designed for ELEC481 "Linear System", which is provided by ECE department. Right now this lab has been equipped with 4 ECP educational control systems: ECP Model 220 - Servo Mechanism System ECP Model 505 - Inverted Pendulum ECP Model 205 - Torsional Mechanism ECP Model 730 - Magnetic Levitation All system components are made to the highest industrial standards. They have been proven to reliably stand up to many years of continual student use while providing high performance control and data processing. Advanced data processing and intuitive interface software let you immediately implement your control design - either ECP provided or your own - and characterize system behavior. Easy-to-follow instructions guide you through set-up, system operations. Sections on theory, experiments, and detailed instructor solutions greatly accelerate student learning. For more detailed information, you can visit  ECP Systems  or the  lab website . Microelectronics laboratory Administrator:   Shailesh Prasad Location: H007 Courses: ELEC 421, 422, 424 Phone: 4106 This is a fabrication facility where the students can learn about fabrication of BJT and MOSFET. More information about the microelectronics laboratory and the equipments used can be found on my homepage.   http://users.encs.concordia.ca/~shailesh/ You can also find here the lab manuals for ELEC 421, 422, and 424. Microwave Engineering Administrator:  Jeffrey Landry Location: H853 Courses: ELEC 453, ELEC 456 The microwave laboratory investigates phenomena and devices used in microwave engineering. Topics include: waveguide properties striplines and microstrips microwave couplers and cavities microwave filter design antenna porperties Network Lab Administrator:   Dan Li Location: H-919 Courses: ELEC 472, ELEC 465 Lab website ECE Networks Laboratory is engaged in teaching and education in the areas of networks management, network security, wireless communication, quality of service, simulation, multimedia and more ... There are some advanced network equipments in the lab, such as six Cisco routers, one Cisco switch, one Myrinet switch, thirteen Windows/Linux workstations and three servers.  See more on the lab website . ELEC 425: Optical Fiber Lab Administrator:  Shailesh Prasad Location: H-863 Courses: ELEC 425 Phone: ext. 4106 This facility is linked to ELEC 425. The students in this lab learn about optical fiber communication. They perform 5 experiments that involves fiber splicing, optical coupling (Unidirectional as well as bidirectional), coupling loss etc. The lab manuals for this course can be found on my homepage. http://users.encs.concordia.ca/~shailesh/ ELEC 483: Real-time Control System Lab Administrator:   Dan Li Location: H-832.02 Courses: ELEC 483 Lab website The 2 Degrees of Freedom (2DOF) helicopter model is fixed to a vertically mounted shaft that is free to rotate to left and right giving it a degree of freedom in Yaw (changing of y, or direction). The vehicle is suspended in a frame on the vertical shaft so that it is free to swing up and down giving it a degree of freedom in Pitch (changing of q, or angle). [1] For more information, you can visit the  Quanser website . Learn more on the lab website . COEN 421: Real-time Embedded System Lab Administrator:  Dan Li Location: H-867 Courses: COEN 421 Lab website Real-time System lab is made up of four sets of Qball system, which consists of real-time develop workstation, real-time target machine - single board computers (SMC) and Qball as a plant. The lab is connected to real-timenetwork, which is supported by real-time management server, data server and QNX remote access servers. More information can be found at  ECE Real-time website . ELEC 321: Semiconductors & Devices Administrator:   Shailesh Prasad Location: H-861 Courses: ELEC 321 Phone: 4106 This lab is a requirement for ELEC 321 where students learn about the electrical and material properties of semiconductors. Three of the 5 lab sessions involve simulation type of experiments. The students learn to use Carine software which gives information about the crystalline properties of semiconductor. The remaining two lab sessions are equipment-based experiments where the students observe the absorption of light by semiconductors. Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
59docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Facilities & services > Computer facilities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Computer facilities Since the formation of Academic Information Technology Services (AITS) by the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, the management of the computer and network facilities is now conducted at the Faculty level. The result is a better managed and more comprehensive set of services available to the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Learn more about AITS computer labs Department resources Besides the teaching labs available Faculty wide,  a number of specialized laboratories  are available to address the particular needs of Electrical and Computer Engineering programs. The core of the network continues to be gigabyte switches (Cisco Catalyst 3750s) with 100 Mbit to the desktop. Solaris servers provide the CMC (VLSI) applications for our teaching programs and the client systems are now dual boot with Linux and windows. The department has a number of dedicated servers and a variety of client systems. These facilities are the primary resources used by faculty members, support staff and students for undergraduate and graduate teaching, research and administrative tasks. The Electrical and Computer Engineering computing facilities include a variety of Solaris/Unix/Linux servers (6) [SunFire 280R (2), E420R, E450, IBM-345(2)]. These servers provide the services specifically required by the department. Additional services for computing, mail, printing, archiving and WEB services are available from the Faculty resources to the Electrical and Computer Engineering user community. The primary suite of programs continues to be: Cadence, MATLAB (with various toolboxes), Signal Processing Workbench (SPW), ObjectGEODE, editors, compilers and a variety of other applications. The client systems dedicated for teaching are located in nine laboratories located on the 8th and 9th floor of the Hall Building. These provide almost 200 seats (56 are Solaris workstations with the remainder Windows/Linux systems) for students to do course assignments, prepare for labs and perform laboratory experiments. The Electrical and Computer Engineering research computer facilities also include a number of central application servers (5) [Enterprise E3500, SunFire 280R (4), SunBlade-1000] and X client systems (14 PC/Windows 2K, 52 X-term/Unix workstations) which can be found in our Research Laboratories: Signal and Video Processing Laboratories, Robotics and Control Group, Electromagnetic Compatibility Laboratory, Antenna and Microwave Laboratory, Hardware Verification Laboratory, Microelectronics Laboratory, Power Electronics Laboratory, Telesoft Laboratory, VLSI Laboratory, Wireless and Satellite Communications Laboratory. Additional resources (52 clients - 39 PC/Windows, Unix/Linux Workstations) are also available for faculty, administration, technical and part-time staff. Related office Academic Information Technology Services (AITS) Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
60docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Facilities & services > Department calendar Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Department calendar The new  ENCS Faculty Calendar  has now replaced the original ECE Calendar. To reserve a room, please email  bookings@ece.concordia.ca  . Select a room below to view bookings for that room: EV005.251  : ECE Meeting room EV005.156  : ECE Meeting room EV005.113  : ECE Meeting room Contact AITS  staff  & faculty resources on Cspace Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
61docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research > Research areas Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research areas Applied Electromagnetics Description: The Applied Electromagnetic Group  pursues excellence in research and education in Electromagnetics including antenna design, computational electromagnetics, electromagnetics compatibility, electromagnetics measurement, indoor radio propagation, Scattering and Diffraction, and radar cross analysis. It engages in collaborative research and educational programs with local universities, industry and national international laboratories. Faculty: Drs. Ahmed A. Kishk, Robert Paknys, Abdel R. Sebak, Christopher W. Trueman Director: Dr. Abdel R. Sebak Artificial Intelligence and Artificial Life Description: Concordia Computational Intelligence Laboratory (CCIL) grew out of the work and research of members of Concordia University's Computer Engineering and Computer Science faculty as well as a number of graduate students and collaborators in a range of other academic disciplines.  The CCIL is situated in the new Engineering and Computer Science building as of 2005.  Though still in its beginnings, CCIL is evolving rapidly as the research areas and teams expand.  Much of the Laboratory's work revolves around Artificial Intelligence and Artificial Life, Pattern Recognition and Image Processing. Concordia's Artificial Life Group is a discussion and  interdisciplinary research group  consisting primarily of faculty members from different departments as well as graduate students, although others are welcome to join us. We meet a couple of times each term to discuss aspects of artificial life, which we consider to include genetic algorithms, evolutionary computation, digital life, DNA computing and similar topics. These meetings have led to research collaborations between our members. Faculty: Dr. Nawwaf Kharma, external members: Drs. Peter Grogono (CSE), Luc Varin (BIO), Yong Zeng (CIISE). Director: Dr. Nawwaf Kharma Communications Description: Members of the group conduct research in different areas of wireless and optical communications. Their research spans a wide spectrum ranging from the physical to application layer and is of both theoretical and experimental nature. The group has very strong ties with the telecommunications industry. Particular areas of research include: Digital Communications, Information Theory, Channel Coding, Source Coding, MIMO systems, CDMA and 4G systems, Coding and signal processing for data transmission and storage, Smart antennas for wireless applications,  Network Architectures and Media Access Protocols for Wireless Communication Networks, Performance Modeling of Wireless and Wired Communication Networks, Multimedia Communication over the Internet, Optical Networks, MPLS-based networks, Multicasting and Quality of Service, satellite communications. Faculty: Drs. Anjali Agarwal, Ahmed Elhakeem, Ali Ghrayeb, Walaa Hamouda, Mustafa Mehmet Ali, Yousef Shayan, Reza Soleymani, Dongyu Qiu, (John) Xiupu Zhang Director: Dr. Yousef R. Shayan Hardware Formal Verification Description: Members of the group conduct research in different areas of hardware verification and testing including: Formal verification of hardware, ASIC/SOC modeling and verification, Specification languages, Process algebra, Assertion based verification, Model checking, Theorem proving, Quantum and reversible computing, Simulation-based verification, Reliability of wireless sensor networks, Design for testability. Faculty: Drs. Samar Abdi, Otmane Ait Mohamed, Sofiene Tahar Director: Dr. Sofiene Tahar Link: http://hvg.ece.concordia.ca Micro/Nano Devices Description: Research activities include Design and fabrication of array of nano-particles and nano wires for applications in photonic, biomedical and sensing devices, Design and fabrication of MEMS devices; Design, microfabrication, characterization, and physical modeling of active microwave devices in III-Nitride semiconductor family; Theory, modeling, analysis, and characterization of novel electronic materials, x-ray imaging detectors, photodetectors, thin-film and non-structured photovoltaic solar cells, and III-V nitride devices. Research Labs: MEMS Laboratory :   Investigations on fundamental issues related to Micro Structures, Optical Devices, Silicon Anisotropic Etching. Nanodevice Laboratory : Design, Fabrication and Characterization of Nanoscale electron devices, Nanophotonics Sensors. Reliable Electron Devices Laboratory : Design, microfabrication, characterization, and physical modeling of active microwave devices. Material and Device Characterization Laboratory :  Characterizations of carrier transport, electrical and optical properties of electronic and optoelectronic materials and devices. Faculty: Drs. Zahangir Kabir, Mojtaba Kahrizi, Pouya Valizadeh, (John) Xiupu Zhang Director: Dr. Mojtaba Kahrizi Microelectronics, CAD and VLSI Description: The VLSI research group is engaged in the research of very large scale integrated circuits. The research activities are in the areas of design and implementation of analog-mixed signal circuits, integrated sensors, and VLSI systems for signal processing, communications, robotics and other applications. Faculty: Drs. Asim Al-Khalili, Glenn Cowan, Shah Jahinuzzaman, Rabin Raut, Chunyan Wang, M.Omair Ahmad Director: Dr. Chunyan Wang Photonics Description: Research activities of  photonics research group  cover:  modeling and characterization of semiconductor materials and electronic devices, optical sensors for communication and health related applications, fiber-optic communication systems, microwave photonics, fiber-optic based sources and quantum dot semiconductors, Investigation of radio over fiber systems, and fiber Raman amplifiers. Faculty: Drs. Zahangir Kabir, Mojtaba Kahrizi, (John) Xiupu Zhang Director: Dr. (John) Xiupu Zhang Link: http://users.encs.concordia.ca/~photon Power Systems and Renewable Energy Description: The  Power Electronics and Energy Research Group  (PEER) was initiated at Concordia University in 1986. The activities of the group are supported by grants from Federal and Provincial Granting Agencies, as well as industry. Research activities of the group include: Power electronic converters applied to distributed generation, particularly photo-voltaics, fuel cells and wind power. Modeling, design and simulation of high power converters for transmission and distribution systems. Application of power electronics with particular emphasis in the monitoring, control and protection of power systems using artificial intelligence techniques. Renewable energy systems including wind, solar fuel cells and biomass. Electric machines & drives for industrial, automotive and alternative energy applications. Electric & hybrid vehicles. Biomass heat and power optimization. Energy harvesting. Faculty: Drs. Luiz Lopes, Pragasen Pillay, Sheldon Williamson Director: Dr. Luiz A.C. Lopes Link: http://users.encs.concordia.ca/~perg/ Signal Processing Description: The group is engaged in multidisciplinary research activities targeting advances in the development of signal processing technologies both of a fundamental and applied nature. The objective of the group is to develop sound mathematical basis for reliable processing of speech, image, video and their efficient software and hardware implementations using the principles of engineering design. The current research projects of the group range from voice activities detection, SAR image and seismic data processing, watermarking, video surveillance, audio-video integration to seizure detection. Faculty: Drs. M. Omair Ahmad, Aishy Amer, Scott Gleason, William E. Lynch, M.N.S. Swamy, Wei-Ping Zhu Director: Dr. M. Omair Ahmad Software Engineering and Real-time Systems Description: Members of the group conduct research in different areas including: Software engineering, Real-time embedded software systems, Formal methods, Modeling, Validation and testing, Communication protocol engineering, Multimedia communication architectures and protocols, Service engineering, Evolutionary computation for pattern recognition and image processing, Machine learning for engineering applications. Faculty: Drs. Samar Abdi, Anjali Agarwal, Abdelwahab Hamou-Lhadj, Nawaf Kharma, Ferhat Khendek Director: Dr. Ferhat Khendek Systems and Control Description: The group aims to contribute to multi-disciplinary research activities that target advances in the development of control systems and robotics technologies with applications to a wide range of industrial systems. Our objective is to organically fuse and integrate theoretical concepts, computational methods, and engineering design principles through multi-disciplinary research initiatives and cooperation. Faculty: Drs. Amir Aghdam, Shahin Hashtrudi Zad, Kash Khorasani, Luis Rodrigues Director: Dr. Kash Khorasani Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
62docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research > Professional activities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Professional activities Aghdam, Amir G. Professor Chair IEEE Montreal Section Chair Control Chapter of IEEE Montreal Section Ahmad, M. Omair Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Chair Circuits and Systems Chapter, Montreal Section of IEEE Amer, Aishy Associate Professor Associate Editor Springer Journal of Real-time Image Processing Associate Editor Elsevier Journal for Real-time image Ghrayeb, Ali Professor and Tier II Concordia Research Chair Associate Editor IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology Hamouda, Walaa Professor and Tier II Concordia Research Chair Chair IEEE Communications Montreal Chapter Swamy, M.N.S. Research Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Editor-in-Chief Circuits, Systems and Signal Processing Journal Associate Editor Fibonacci Quarterly Chair IEEE Multimedia Transactions Steering Committee Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
63docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research > Recent publications Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Recent publications See all Related links Spectrum Research repository Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
64docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research > Recent theses Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Recent department theses Related links MASc program PhD program Spectrum Research repository Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
65docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Research > Researchers Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Researchers Samar Abdi Assistant professor Embedded System Design Multi-core Systems System-on-Chip Modeling Formal Methods Anjali Agarwal Professor Communication protocols Issues of real-time and multimedia communication over internet Amir G. Aghdam Professor Decentralized large-scale systems Digital control Adaptive control DSL communication networks M. Omair Ahmad Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Algorithms and architectures for image processing Digital signal processing VLSI circuit design Otmane Ait Mohamed Associate Professor Hardware specification and verification Formal methods VLSI design automation Aishy Amer Associate Professor Video and image processing Multimedia Video quality enhancement Noise estimation and reduction Video representation Video segmentation, object segmentation, object tracking Motion estimation Video surveillance Advanced TV-systems and other real-time video applications Amir Asif Professor, Dean of ENCS Glenn Cowan Associate Professor Analog & Mixed-signal VLSI circuit design for signal processing and communication Device variability Circuit design in presence of device variability Design of adaptive VLSI circuits Ali Ghrayeb Professor and Tier II Concordia Research Chair Polymers (plastics, adhesives, sealants etc) Composites based on synthetic fibres Polymers and organic compounds for energy conservation Abdelwahab Hamou-Lhadj Associate Professor Object-oriented Software Engineering Software Maintenance; Reverse Engineering Program Comprehension Software Visualization Walaa Hamouda Professor and Tier II Concordia Research Chair Digital communications Satellite and wireless communications Adaptive antennas Channel coding Shahin Hashtrudi Zad Associate Professor Control systems Discrete-event systems Fault diagnosis M. Zahangir Kabir Associate Professor Electronic materials and devices; X-ray imaging detectors Thin-film and nano-structured solar cells Amorphous and polycrystalline semiconductors Mojtaba Kahrizi Professor MEMS Micro/Nano systems Photonic devices VLSI technology Nawwaf Kharma Associate Professor Artificial Intelligence: Pattern recognition and machine learning Artificial Life: Evolutionary computation and nature inspired computing Real-World Application: Evolution of pattern and image processing software systems Ferhat Khendek Professor and NSERC/Ericsson Senior Industrial Research Chair Real-time Software Engineering: Modelling, Design and Validation Service Engineering for Next Generation Networks Kash Khorasani Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Nonlinear, adaptive and robust control Flexible joint and link robot manipulators Modelling and control of large scale systems Neural networks Real-time systems Singular perturbation analysis Virtual reality and haptic interfaces Ahmed A. Kishk Professor and Tier I Canada Research Chair Dielectric resonator antennas, microstrip antennas, small antennas, microwave sensors, RFID antennas for readers and tags Multi-function antennas, microwave cicuits, EBG, artificial magnetic conductors, soft and hard surfaces, phased array antennas, and computer aided design for antennas. Design of millimeter frequency antennas Feeds for parabolic reflectors Yan Liu Associate Professor Cloud Computing Distributed Systems Software Engineering Web-Enabled Applications Luiz A.C. Lopes Professor Power electronics High power converters Distributed generation William E. Lynch Professor and Chair Image compression Image processing Signal processing Video compression Mustafa K. Mehmet Ali Professor Network architectures for wireless and wired communication networks and their performance modelling. Robert Paknys Professor Antennas, electromagnetic scattering and diffraction. Pragasen Pillay Professor and NSERC/Hydro-Qubec Senior Industrial Research Chair Interests are in modeling, analysis, design and control of electric machines, electric motor drive systems, traction motors for electric and hybrid electric vehicles, renewable energy including wind, biomass and solar energy, energy storage, energy efficiency and conservation, sustainability issues in power and energy engineering Dongyu Qiu Associate Professor Peer to peer networks Network performance analysis Wireless networks Venkat Ramachandran Professor Multidimensional signal processing Two-dimensional analog and digital filters Rabin Raut Professor VLSI/Analog VLSI Hassan Rivaz Assistant Professor Medical image processing Ultrasound elastography Image registration Image fusion Machine learning Pattern recognition Computer vision Luis Rodrigues Associate Professor Control systems Avionics Aerospace Abdel R. Sebak Professor Phased array antennas Applied electromagnetics EM scattering RCS, EMC/EMI, EM Theory Antennas; Computational electromagnetics Yousef R. Shayan Professor Digital communications Error control coding Wireless communication systems Chris Skonieczny Assistant Professor Polymers (plastics, adhesives, sealants etc) Composites based on synthetic fibres Polymers and organic compounds for energy conservation M. Reza Soleymani Professor Communications networks Digital communications Information theory and coding Wireless and satellite communications M.N.S. Swamy Research Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Signal processing Image processing Sofine Tahar Professor and Tier I Concordia Research Chair Hardware specification and verification Formal methods VLSI design automation Communications hardware and protocols Jelena Trajkovic Assistant Professor Optical Network-on-Chip Application Specific Processor Mutli-core System-on-Chip Digital Design and Synthesis Design Automation Embedded Systems Computer Architecture Christopher W. Trueman Professor Aircraft and ship antennas Broadcast antennas Cellular phone antennas Computational electromagnetics Electromagnetic compatibility Finite difference time-domain method Handset and human head interactions Radar cross-section of aircraft and ships Pouya Valizadeh Associate Professor Solid state microwave devices Micro/nano-electronics III-V electronics Noise in semiconductor devices Polarization in semiconductor devices Reliability of electronic devices MEMS technology Chunyan Wang Professor Analog-mixed VLSI design and implementation Large scale CMOS optical sensor integration Digital image processing (John) Xiupu Zhang Professor Photonics Fiber-optic communications Wireless communications and Quantum dot semiconductor lasers, high-power and broadband photodiodes and broadband optical receivers Wei-Ping Zhu Professor Speech and audio processing Advanced signal processing for wireless communications OFDM/MIMO systems MIMO relay networks, cooperative communication. Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
66docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News Convocation preview: 5 great grads, in numbers October 15, 2014 Ted Obuchowicz: Learning on the job September 23, 2014 10 District 3 innovators put their skills to the test June 4, 2014 Excellence in Electrical and Computer Engineering May 23, 2014 Faculty Accolades, February 2014 February 5, 2014 Spiri - A robot in sync with music January 17, 2014 Show more Notice November 12, 2014 Award for Dr. Hamou-Lhadj and his group at IBM Center of Advanced Studies Conference October 1, 2014 Faculty Accolades - October June 17, 2014 Dr. Amir Ajorlou nominated for Best Ph.D.Thesis Award in Quebec June 17, 2014 Faculty Accolades, June 2014 See all 2015 ECE Graduate Student Research (GSR) Conference Thursday, March 12, 2015 9am - 5pm ENCS Atrium  EV Building Concordia-wide events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
67docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Computer Engineering (BEng) Electrical Engineering (BEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MASc) Electrical & Computer Engineering (MEng) Electrical & Computer Engineering (PhD) Research Research areas Researchers Professional activities Recent publications Recent theses Facilities & services Teaching labs Computer facilities Utilities & tools Department calendar Student resources Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering > Student resources > Capstone Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Capstone The ELEC/COEN 490 project is intended as a capstone course for students at Concordia University. It provides students with a significant design experience and integration of knowledge from several courses.  It also provides students with a means to practice project management, technical writing, and technical presentation skills. Students are expected to gain industrial design experience as much as possible. Students are required to work together in teams and to learn new material. Click here to visit Capstone site Contacts Academic Coordinator Chunyan Wang Contact for academic inquiries, project assignment Technical Coordinator Dmitry Rozhdestvenskiy Contact for resources and technical questions Program Assistant Connie Cianciarelli Contact for general questions, schedules, presentation times, etc. Back to top About the department Programs Research Facilities & services Student resources Contact us News & events Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George William Campus 1515 St.Catherine West Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 2W1 See SGW Campus map Engineering & Visual Arts Building EV Building - Room EV-5.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
68docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact The  Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering  is supported by a dedicated team of  administrative staff  as well as  research & technical staff . Administrative Contacts Dr. Martin Pugh Department Chair Dr. Lyes Kadem Associate Chair Sophie Mrineau Assistant to the Chair Maureen Thuringer Department Administrator Dominic Ng, .ing. Engineer in Residence Dan Juras Technical and Safety Officer Undergraduate Contacts Dr. Henry Hong Undergraduate and Co-op Program Director Dr. Gerard Gouw Undergraduate Curriculum Director Sabrina Poirier Undergraduate and Co-op Program Assistant Graduate Contacts Dr. Ali Dolatabadi Graduate and Ph.D. Program Director Dr. Sivakumar Narayanswamy Graduate M. Eng and M.A.Sc. Program Director Dr. Marius Paraschivoiu Aerospace Program Director Leslie Hosein Graduate Program Coordinator (Ph.D. and Aerospace) Charlene Wald Graduate Program Coordinator (M. Eng and M.A.Sc.) Conference Room Bookings We have two conference rooms available to our faculty, staff and students for booking. To book a room, please  contact us . To view the current bookings, please log-on to the ENCS  WebCalendar . View larger map Contact us Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering: 514-848-2424 ext. 3125 arlene.zimmerman@concordia.ca 514-848-2424 ext. 3175 Location Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 1515 St. Catherine St. West, EV 4.139 Montreal, Quebec H3G 2W1 Canada Mailing address Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West,  EV 4.139 Montreal, Quebec H3G 1M8 Canada Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
69docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services Our research and teaching labs provide faculty and students access to a variety of specialized equipment and resources. Research Labs Teaching Labs Lab Safety IT Support (AITS) Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
70docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student Banking 101 Learn about the basics of student bank products and make the right choice November 26, 2014, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM The Financial Aid and Awards Office of Concordia University invites all current and future Concordia students to the  Student Banking 101  workshop. In this free workshop, you will learn about the basics of student bank products and will get tips that can help you choose the right products for you. These tips will help you save money and help foster a positive start to your credit history. How to sign up for Financial Literacy Week workshops Go to the  MyConcordia portal Click on Financial Aid and Awards in the left sidebar Click on Workshops Follow the instructions to reserve your place Where Room GM-230-18, Guy-Metro Building  (1550 De Maisonneuve W.), Sir George William Campus Cost This event is free Speakers Kathy Antonopoulos, Luiza-Elisabeta Tudor Organizer Atosa Tangestanifar Organization Financial Aid and Awards Office Website Financial Aid and Awards Office website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 7855 Category Workshops & seminars Export event Other Dates November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 November 28, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
71docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Get the flu shot Book your appointment today to protect yourself and others from the flu November 26, 2014, 9:00 AM – 3:30 PM The health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year. Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe. Flu vaccine clinics start November 18. Come by  Health Services  or drop by the weekly  Healthy YOU at CU information tables  to discuss your questions and concerns with a nurse or health promotion specialist. Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from  WebMD Check out the  Health Services flu clinic schedule ! Where Room AD-307, Administration Building  (7141 Sherbrooke W.), Loyola Campus Cost Free to those who meet the criteria Organization Health Services Website Health Services website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 5276 Category Other events Export event Other Dates November 18, 2014 November 19, 2014 November 21, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
72docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research With over 500 graduate students, including about 100 PhD students, several post-doctoral fellows and invited researchers, our  faculty members  obtain over two million dollars in research grants each year. Our Researchers Research Labs Thesis Database Researchers by Topic: Mechanical Engineering Nano-Systems and nano-materials Robin A.L. Drew Suong Van Hoa Martin D. Pugh Paula Wood-Adams Rolf Wuthrich Christian Moreau Alternative Energy Hoi Dick Ng Marius Paraschivoiu Rolf Wuthrich Mechanics/Dynamics/Vibrations A. K. Waizuddin Ahmed Rama B. Bhat Subhash Rakheja Ramin Sedaghati Ion Stiharu Micro-systems and Devices Javad Dargahi Muthukumaran Packirisamy Sivakumar Narayanswamy Ion Stiharu Rolf Wuthrich Rajamohan Ganesan Mehdi Hojjati Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) Ali Dolatabadi Wahid Ghaly Hoi Dick Ng Marius Paraschivoiu Fluid Mechanics Ali Dolatabadi Nabil Esmail Wahid Ghaly Lyes Kadem Hoi Dick Ng Georgios Vatistas Marius Paraschivoiu Heat Transfer Ali Dolatabadi Wahid Ghaly Materials/Composites/Surfaces Robin A.L. Drew Suong Van Hoa Mamoun Medraj Martin D. Pugh Paula Wood-Adams Rolf Wuthrich Ali Dolatabadi Christian Moreau Mechatronics/Control Systems/Flight Control Brandon Gordon Henry Hong Chun-Yi Su Wen-Fang Xie Youmin Zhang Structures/Stress Analysis/FEA Rajamohan Ganesan Suong Van Hoa Ramin Sedaghati Bio-mechanical/Biomedical Engineering Gerard J. Gouw Lyes Kadem Subhash Rakheja Machining/CAD-CAM/CNC Chevy Chen Sivakumar Narayanswamy Researchers by Topic: Industrial Engineering Operations research Mingyuan Chen Ivan Contreras Kudret Demirli Masoumeh Kazemi-Zanjani Flexible and Cellular Manufacturing Systems Akif Bulgak Kudret Demirli Onur Kuzgunkaya Mingyuan Chen Lean Engineering Nadia Bhuiyan Kudret Demirli Logistics/Network Optimization Ivan Contreras Simulation of systems/Virtual Prototyping Mingyuan Chen Ali Akgunduz Product design Nadia Bhuiyan Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
73docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Programs > Graduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Graduate programs Our department offers a dynamic doctoral program and five  Master's degree programs  which trains students in fundamentals and theory or in practical applications. PhD Programs Our PhD programs are designed to provide advanced studies in research in theoretical foundation of the discipline and its applications. The main objective of the PhD program is for candidates to demonstrate ability to carry-out high quality independent research, culminating in a thesis presentation and defence. PhD in  Mechanical Engineering PhD in  Industrial Engineering Masters degrees The department offers two types of Masters degrees. One is Thesis-based which educates students more in depth on a chosen thesis topic, the other is based on course work. MASc. in  Mechanical Engineering M. Eng in  Mechanical Engineering MASc. in  Industrial Engineering M. Eng in  Industrial Engineering Master of Aerospace Engineering Graduate Certificate The Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department offers a Graduate Certificate in Mechanical Engineering for qualified university graduates who wish to obtain expertise in the following disciplines within Mechanical Engineering: Aerospace Composite Materials Control and Automation Manufacturing Systems Theoretical and Computational Fluid Dynamics Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
74docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Programs > Undergraduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Undergraduate programs The Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering offers two distinct undergraduate programs, one leading to the  BEng in Mechanical Engineering , the other to the  BEng in Industrial Engineering . Our programs are  accredited  by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board and our graduates are eligible to become registered professional engineers. Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering The  Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering  program consists of the Engineering Core, the Mechanical Engineering Core, and one of three areas of specialization (options): Aerospace & Propulsion Design & Manufacturing Systems & Mechatronics Learn more Bachelor of Industrial Engineering At Concordia University, industrial engineering is integrated with the mechanical engineering department allowing the students to better understand technical processes. It is the only program of its kind offered in English in Quebec. The  Bachelor of Industrial Engineering  program consists of the Engineering Core, the Industrial Engineering Core, and a selection of elective courses to choose from. Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
75docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > About the department Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the department Dr. Martin D. Pugh, Department Chair A message from the Chair Welcome to the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE). If you are looking for an undergraduate or graduate program in Mechanical or Industrial Engineering in the great city of Montreal, then you have come to the right place. We have many accomplished  full-time faculty members , several  part-time instructors , adjunct professors and  professors emeriti . Our department is also supported by a dedicated team of administrative, technical and research  staff . Both of our undergraduate programs offer  accredited  Engineering degrees and our blend of theoretical, practical and laboratory experiences gives our students a valuable degree ready for engineering in the real world. Our students also have the opportunity to gain work experience through  Co-op  and  CIADI , get involved in many  extra-curricular activities  and make long lasting friendships. Our students go on to find jobs in many sectors including aerospace, automotive, manufacturing and consulting engineering. We have a diverse range of  research activities  in both mechanical and industrial engineering topics and our  teaching and research facilities  are excellent. Engineer your future at MIE-Concordia! Dr. Martin D. Pugh Facilities The  EV Building  relies on electrical and venting systems designed to reduce its environmental footprint. The vertical campus concept has proven to be more than theoretical and the sun-drenched staircases have become an inner causeway for exchange and social interaction between floors. In the EV Building, there is space for all, including faculty and staff offices, labs, lounges and dedicated graduate studies rooms. Faculty, students and staff now work in an environment that creates new links and exchanges between areas. More about our Facilities EV Building Join the Conversation Follow @ENCSConcordia Concordia Engineering ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Related Links Job opportunities Forms for Faculty (Cspace) Contact us for Administrative support Technical support General Contact Page Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
76docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > News & events > Notices Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Notices October 1, 2014 Faculty Accolades - October June 17, 2014 Faculty Accolades, June 2014 April 30, 2014 Faculty Accolades, May 2014 July 2, 2013 Appointment of Rama Bhat as Associate Dean, Academic Affairs June 14, 2012 Hyder Khadim Recognized by the Ordre des ingnieurs March 2, 2012 From Halifax to Montreal, IIE Conference January 13, 2012 Vatistas named EIC Fellow Join the Conversation Follow @ENCSConcordia Concordia Engineering ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter (CSCE:CSC) Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
77docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Student life Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student life We welcome students from all parts of Canada, the US and abroad. Currently, we have over 1500 students registered throughout our Mechanical and Industrial Engineering programs. Current students Student & Professional Associations Campus services at Concordia Financial  support Student  Academic Services Teaching  assistants Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
78docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Current students Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Current students All the resources you need as a current student in your  undergrad  or  grad  studies. Key Resources Forms Deadlines Other Concordia Class Schedule ENCS Class Schedule All ENCS labs schedules Door codes How to avoid plagiarism offence Mechanical Engineering options FAQ Expectations of Originality form : Form to be attached to assignments, projects, and reports for grading. Graduate: Course change form  Drop/Add Graduate: Authorization to Register as a Non-Degree Student (Independent/Visiting) Undergraduate Academic Dates Graduate Academic Dates Graduate Application Deadlines Convocation New to Concordia? Find out about orientation, workshops, and programs for new students. Looking for some help? Check out the many sources of support and academic assistance. What's on Campus? Discover the range of campus resources. Dealing with red tape? Find the office that can provide you with the service you require. Nearing the end of your degree? Get advice on career direction, job search strategies and more. Ask Concordia! Your online advisor. Immediate responses to your questions. FAQs. Concerned about plagiarism? Read about academic integrity and the campus code of conduct. Understanding your GPA Grading system, definitions, regulations, how to calculate, conditional and failed standing. Useful links MyConcordia Portal Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Undergraduate Calendar Graduate Calendar Undergraduate students Graduate students Student Academic Services Student requests, readmission forms, transfer requests and more can all be found at SAS. Visit SAS now Questions? If you do not find what you are looking for, one of the members of our  administrative support  team will be happy to help you. Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
79docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > About the department > Job opportunities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Job opportunities MIE Teaching Assistant Positions If you are a current student who is interested in becoming a teaching assistant, marker or lab instructor for MIE please  review the requirements  before submitting your application. Teaching Assistant Application Form Part-Time Faculty Positions If you are interested in becoming a part-time faculty member within MIE, please see the  Job Opportunities  listed by Human Resources. Part-time Teaching Application Form - Appendix H ENCS Faculty and Teaching Positions Strategic Hire - Sustainable Infrastructure for Communities in Cold Climates Mechanical & Industrial Engineering - Assistant or Associate Professor Canada Research Chair: CIISE - Cyber Security Strategic Hire - Computer Games and Virtual Worlds CIISE - Assistant Professor Assistant Professor, Software Engineering Strategic Hire - Interaction Design, Theory and Practice University Staff Opportunities FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & COMPUTER SCIENCEdocContentEnd
80docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > About the department > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time Faculty Part-time Faculty Professor Emeriti Full-time Faculty Ali Akgunduz Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Associate Dean, Academic Programs 514-848-2424, ext. 3073 S-EV 2145 ali.akgunduz@concordia.ca System Simulation and Statistical Output Analysis, Application of Virtual Reality to system design and analysis (e.g. virtual prototyping), Algorithms and software development for business problems, Operation research and applications, Customer driven product design, Quality control and reliability analysis, Six Sigma quality management, Robust design and design optimization. A. K. Waizuddin Ahmed Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7932 S-EV 4127 waiz.ahmed@concordia.ca Dynamic systems; stability; vehicle systems; vibration isolation and control; railway vehicle dynamics; vehicle system dynamics and design; modeling and analysis of physical systems. Rama B. Bhat Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3137 S-EV 4157 rama.bhat@concordia.ca Random and mechanical vibrations; rotor dynamics; structural acoustics; micromechatronic systems; modal testing and analysis; aeroelasticity; numerical methods Nadia Bhuiyan Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Associate Director, Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 3101 S-EV 12105 nadia.bhuiyan@concordia.ca Operational issues dealing with the design, development, production, and distribution of goods & services, with a focus on emerging tools and techniques in product/process design & development, design and manufacturing technologies, information management, and methods for integrating design & manufacturing to improve process performance. Akif Bulgak Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3161 S-EV 4155 bulgak@encs.concordia.ca Modeling & performance analysis of flexible manufacturing / assembly systems; adaptive/predictive scheduling of flexible manufacturing systems; design optimization and economics of flexible manufacturing/assembly systems; just-in-time manufacturing systems; performance evaluation of manufacturing systems; stochastic optimization; quality and productivity improvement; industrial economics; Chevy Chen Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 3176 S-EV 12189 zezhong.chen@concordia.ca Applied operations research; manufacturing systems design & analysis; production engineering; computer integrated manufacture; simulation of industrial systems; inventory control. Mingyuan Chen Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3134 S-EV 4169 mingyuan.chen@concordia.ca Applied operations research; manufacturing systems design & analysis; production engineering; computer integrated manufacture; simulation of industrial systems; inventory control. John Cheung Extended-Term Appointment, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7913 S-EV 4411 cheung@encs.concordia.ca Ivan Contreras Assistant Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3130 S-EV 4122 ivan.contreras@concordia.ca Transportation and logistics; network optimization and design; facility location; hub location; scheduling; operations research; integer and combinatorial optimization; decomposition methods for large-scale optimization; robust optimization Javad Dargahi Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7967 S-EV 4165 dargahi@encs.concordia.ca Haptic sensors and feedback systems for minimally invasive surgery and robotics, Design and fabrication of intelligent tactile sensors for robots and endoscopes, Design and fabrication of sensors by micromachining, Application of piezoelectric polymers in robotic and endoscopic sensors, Teletaction in minimally invasive surgery. Kudret Demirli Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3160 S-EV 4187 kudret.demirli@concordia.ca (On leave from September 1, 2014 to August 31, 2015) Lean Manufacturing, Lean Supply Chain, and Lean Healthcare. Ali Dolatabadi Professor and Graduate & PhD Program Director, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 5188 S-EV 12109 ali.dolatabadi@concordia.ca CFD, Numerical and experimental Two-phase flows, Microfluidics, Micro-scale actuators, Spray Coatings of metals and ceramics using High Velocity Oxygen Fuel (HVOF) process, Spray and atomization, Heat and mass transfer. Robin A.L. Drew Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7934 S-EV 12102 robin.drew@concordia.ca Research in advanced materials: porous materials ,foams, metal-ceramic composites, metal-ceramic interactions and joining processes. Nabil Esmail Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4194 S-EV 4164 nabil.esmail@concordia.ca Coating paper mechanics in pulp and paper industry; mechanical properties of polymeric liquids; rheology; solid-surface wetting phenomena and mechanics. Rajamohan Ganesan Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3164 S-EV 4211 r.ganesan@concordia.ca Composite materials and structures; stochastic mechanics and random vibrations; stress analysis; finite element method; vibration analysis and machine dynamics; machinery monitoring and diagnostics; engineering fracture mechanics and fatigue. Wahid Ghaly Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4191 S-EV 4151 wahid.ghaly@concordia.ca (On sabbatical from June 1, 2014 to May 31, 2015) Aerodynamic design and optimization methods in turbomachinery; convective heat transfer; theoretical and computational fluid dynamics. Brandon Gordon Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3151 S-EV 4227 bwgordon@encs.concordia.ca Control systems; mechatronics; robotics; virtual reality; distributed computing networks; real-time simulation; active flow control; internal combustion engines; automotive and aerospace control systems. Gerard J. Gouw Professor and Undergraduate Curriculum Director, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4197 S-EV 4171 gerard.gouw@concordia.ca Human factors engineering; safety engineering; biomedical engineering; tribology; numerical methods. Suong Van Hoa Professor and Director of CONCOM, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 3139 S-EV 4145 suong.hoa@concordia.ca Composite materials and structures; design of composite structures; vibration; stress analysis; dynamics; finite element method; testing and evaluation of composite materials and structures; manufacturing of composites. Mehdi Hojjati Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 5740 S-EV 12181 mehdi.hojjati@concordia.ca Henry Hong Associate Professor and Undergraduate and Co-op Program Director, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3154 S-EV 4231 henry.hong@concordia.ca Direct injection of alternative fuels for CI engines; solenoid operated alternative fuel injector systems for diesel engines; fuel control systems for small gas turbine engines; hybrid electric vehicles; electronic / hydromechanical fuel control systems; mechatronic control systems; microprocessor control of electromechanical systems; modeling and simulation of dynamic systems; control systems Suraj Joshi Assistant Professor (LTA), Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 2513 S-EV 4239 suraj.joshi@concordia.ca Weld modeling, machine and structural design, properties of materials, fatigue, failure and finite element analysis. Lyes Kadem Associate Professor and Associate Chair, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3143 S-EV 4207 lyes.kadem@concordia.ca Particle image velocimetry; Cardiovascular biomechanics; Aortic stenosis; Hypertension; Magnetic resonance imaging; Doppler Ultrasound; Experimental fluid mechanics; Mathematical modeling of the arterial system; In vitro experiments. Ashok Kaushal Assistant Professor (LTA), Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3611 S-FB 213 ashok.kaushal@concordia.ca Vibration, Rotordynamics, CAD & FEA Masoumeh Kazemi-Zanjani Assistant Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5061 S-EV 4243 masoumeh.kazemizanjani@concordia.ca Applied stochastic programming and robust optimization in supply chain and operations management; applied operations research; Supply chain management; Production planning; Sustainable operations management (reverse logistics, closed loop supply chains). Onur Kuzgunkaya Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7940 S-EV 4219 onur.kuzgunkaya@concordia.ca Design and Analysis of Flexible/Reconfigurable Manufacturing Systems, Economic Evaluation of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, Manufacturing System Performance Evaluation, Life Cycle Cost (LCC) Analysis, Complexity in Manufacturing, Multiple Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) Methods, Fuzzy Optimization, Lean Manufacturing and Supply Chain Management Mamoun Medraj Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 3146 S-EV 12185 mamoun.medraj@concordia.ca (On leave from September 1, 2014 to August 31, 2015) Light metals, magnesium alloys development, metal matrix composites, computational thermodynamics, phase diagrams, nanostructured coatings, mathematical modeling as a utility in materials processing, and failure analysis and stress waves. Christian Moreau Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7921 S-EV 12183 christian.moreau@concordia.ca Thermal Spraying, Coatings, Properties / Microstructure Relationship, Industrial Applications of Coatings, Particle Diagnostics, Optical, Sensors, Optical Pyrometry, Control of Thermal Spray Processes Sivakumar Narayanswamy Associate Professor and M. Eng & M.A.Sc. Program Director, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7923 S-EV 4124 siva.narayanswamy@concordia.ca Measurement of surface roughness, profile and length using laser interferometry, dynamic characterization of vibrating objects, characterization of MEMS devices. In Micromachining: Pulsed Laser micromachining of photonic devices such as surface relief gratings, fiber bragg gratings and feature size reduction by direct machining Hoi Dick Ng Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3177 S-EV 4229 hoi.ng@concordia.ca Combustion; explosion; detonation and deflagration; shock waves physics; alternative fuel research; energetic materials; theoretical and computational fluid dynamics; applied mathematics, numerical methods Muthukumaran Packirisamy Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 7973 S-EV 4219 m.packirisamy@concordia.ca Optical MEMS (Micro Electro Mechanical Systems), PVDF MEMS, Microphotonics, Dynamics of Microsystems, Integrated Microsensors and Microactuators, Silicon Micromachining, Fuzzy System Identification of Microsystems, Design and manufacturing. Alexandre Paradis Extended-Term Appointment, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3969 S-EV 4181 paradis@encs.concordia.ca Marius Paraschivoiu Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Aerospace Program Director, Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation 514-848-2424, ext. 3147 S-EV 12101 marius.paraschivoiu@concordia.ca Computational fluid dynamics; finite element methods for fluid simulations; aerodynamic simulations; wind energy; acoustic simulations; parallel computing; turbulence modeling. Martin D. Pugh Professor and Chair of the Department, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3170 S-EV 4189 martin.pugh@concordia.ca Plastics, ceramics, metals, and composites; materials science; properties and failure of materials; casting, welding, heat-treating and non-destructive testing. Subhash Rakheja Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3162 S-EV 4121 subhash.rakheja@concordia.ca (On sabbatical from June 1, 2014 to May 31, 2015) Human response to vibration and shock; vehicle dynamics; optimization and vibration control in system design; directional control and stability of commercial vehicles; driver-vehicle interactions; power tools and hand-transmitted vibration; seating dynamics and driver vibration; semi-active and active vibration control; vehicle and ride dynamics; vehicle suspension analysis; Ramin Sedaghati Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 7971 S-EV 4125 ramin.sedaghati@concordia.ca Smart Materials and Structures (Adaptive Structures); Adaptive Energy Absorption Systems using Smart ER/MR Fluids; Design Optimization of Lightweight Metallic or Composite Structures; Computational Mechanics (Finite Element Method) Ion Stiharu Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Director of CONCAVE 514-848-2424, ext. 3152 S-EV 4223 istih@encs.concordia.ca Design and manufacturing; dynamics; micromachining and micromechanics; tribology; high precision mechanics; intelligent vehicle systems; micromechatronic devices; microsensors (acoustic, acceleration, pressure, humidity); microtribology; nonconventional lubrication methods; sensors and detection systems. Chun-Yi Su Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3168 S-EV 4221 chun-yi.su@concordia.ca Control systems; mechatronics; precision engineering; robotics; process dynamics and control; linear systems. Georgios Vatistas Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3158 S-EV 4153 georgios.vatistas@concordia.ca Fluid mechanics; vortex dynamics and flow instabilities; experimental aerodynamics; finite difference in fluid dynamics; lubrication; microgravity fluid mechanics; thermodynamics; haemodynamics; numerical methods. Wen-Fang Xie Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4193 S-EV 4237 wenfang.xie@concordia.ca Dynamic modeling and control, Mechatronics, Visual Servo Control, Soft Computing Techniques, Image Processing and Pattern Recognition, Hybrid Electric Vehicle, Industrial Process Control and Flight control. Rolf Wuthrich Associate Professor, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3150 S-EV 4241 rolf.wuthrich@concordia.ca Non traditional manufacturing processes, glass micro-machining, electrochemical discharges, micro-systems , nano-particles, gas evolving electrodes, stochastic process modelling, multi-physics modelling, nanostructured electro-catalysts, hydrogen production, fuel-cells. Part-time Instructors 2014 - 2015 (Winter) Name Course assigned E-mail Abou Ziki, Jana MECH 221/4 M ja_abou@encs.concordia.ca Eshaghi, Mehdi MECH 375/4 M mehdi.eshaghi@gmail.com Gauthier, Pierre AERO464/MECH6121 /4 WW pq_gauthier@hotmail.com Girgis, Sami AERO 465/MECH 6161/4 XX sami.girgis@pwc.ca Khouli, Fidel MECH 6231/4 XX fidel.khouli@concordia.ca Kiyanda, Charles ENGR 391/4 UU kiyanda@encs.concordia.ca Obuchowicz, T. MECH 215/4 YY ted@ece.concordia.ca Roman, Dacian Emilian ENGR 245/4 V dacianr@gmail.com Sy, Mamadou MECH 421/6511 /4 X mamadou@encs.concordia.ca Vaidya, Viwek MECH 6541/4 XX viwek@sympatico.ca Part-time Instructors 2014 - 2015 (Fall) Name Course assigned E-mail B. Deris AERO417/ENGR6421/2-MM bijan.deris@concordia.ca P. Q. Gauthier AERO462/MECH6171/2-MM, MECH461/6111/2-XX pq_gauthier@hotmail.com N. Gollu AERO 482/ENGR 6461/2 X ngollu@gmail.com Z. Li ENGR311/2-X gavinlizhi@gmail.com C. Kiyanda ENGR361/2-L kiyanda@encs.concordia.ca F. Mafakheri INDU320/2-X, INDU330/2-X f.mafakheri@concordia.ca M. Talla INDU 421/2 Y malleswara.talla@concordia.ca T. Obuchowicz MECH215/2-XX ted@encs.concordia.ca D. Davis MECH215/2-Y megadon_emc@yahoo.com M. Nofar MECH221/2-Y mohammadreza.nofar@polymtl.ca F. Khouli MECH6241/2-XX fidel.khouli@concordia.ca Part-time Instructors 2014 - 2015 (Summer) Name Course assigned E-mail C. Asthana ENGR 391/1 AA chandra.asthana@concordia.ca D. Davis ENGR 311/1 AA don@ece.concordia.ca B. Deris MECH 6561/1 CC bijan.deris@concordia.ca P. Q. Gauthier ENGR 391/1 CC, MECH 461/6111 /1 AA pq_gauthier@hotmail.com S. Joshi ENGR 311/1 AB suraj.joshi@concordia.ca Professor Emeriti Name Title Contact Dr. Richard M. H. Cheng Distinguished Professor Emeritus Kalman Krakow Associate Professor Emeritus Dr. Vojislav Latinovic Professor Emeritus Dr. Sui Lin Distinguished Professor Emeritus Dr. Hugh J. McQueen Distinguished Professor Emeritus Room : EV3.240 Tel. : 514-848-2424, ext. 3145 Email :  mcqueen@encs.concordia.ca http://users.encs.concordia.ca/~mcqueen/ Dr. Rakif A. Neemeh Associate Professor Emeritus Dr. M.O.M. Osman Distinguished Professor Emeritus Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
81docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > About the department > Staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Staff The department is supported by a dedicated team of  administrative staff  as well as  research and technical staff . Administrative Staff Sophie Mrineau Title Assistant to the Chair Room EV004.163 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3126 E-mail sophie.merineau@concordia.ca Duties Providing administrative support to the department Chair Coordinating academic workload with the unit Ensuring critical CUPFA and CUFA deadlines are met Ordering textbooks for faculty members Processing contracts for students, research assistants/associates, visiting professors, teaching assistants and part-time faculty members, etc. Maureen Thuringer Title Department Administrator Room EV004.143 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 7975 E-mail maureen@encs.concordia.ca Duties Managing the departments day to day operations and funds Implementing policies and procedures Supervising administrative staff Card access, inventory, and seat assignments Arlene Zimmerman Title Office Assistant Room EV004.139 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3125 E-mail arlene.zimmerman@concordia.ca Duties Receiving and redirecting visitors and students in person and on the phone Providing general office assistance Ordering office supplies Graduate Program Coordinators Leslie Hosein Title Graduate Program Coordinator Room EV004.152 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 8750 E-mail hosel@encs.concordia.ca Duties Advising prospective and current students in the Mechanical Engineering Ph.D. program on their course requirements, deadline dates and academic progress Coordinating the Master of Engineering in Aerospace program Managing all graduate awards and scholarships Organizing the Undergraduate Capstone Design and Awards Ceremony Charlene Wald Title Graduate Program Coordinator Room EV004.150 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3131 E-mail charlene@alcor.concordia.ca Duties Advising prospective and current Master of Applied Science, Master of Engineering and Graduate Certificate students on their course requirements, deadline dates and academic progress Preparing and submitting documentation for the Curriculum Tracking System (Graduate) Undergraduate Program Assistant Sabrina Poirier Title Undergraduate and Co-op Program Assistant Room EV004.144 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3133 E-mail sabrina.poirier@concordia.ca Duties Advising prospective and current students regarding programs, courses, and polices Working with the Institute for Co-operative Education to help Co-op students maintain an acceptable sequence and course schedule Processing ENGR 411 Technical Reports as well as Option Selections Providing information to all faculty members regarding student related regulations and issues Providing assistance to the Undergraduate Program Director as well as the First-Year Program Directors as required Preparing and submitting documentation for the Curriculum Tracking System (Undergraduate) Liaising with the examinations office for final exams, deferrals, supplementals, and any other special circumstances Maintaining and updating the department website to ensure all items are current Research and Technical Staff Machinist Juan Alfara Title Machinist Room H 0076-3 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3070 E-mail alfara@encs.concordia.ca Duties Instructing students in machining and manufacturing, on conventional and NC machines (MECH 311 and MECH 6611) Guiding, advising and supervising of students, manufacturing projects (undergraduate and graduate) Providing support and machining for Capstone projects (MECH 490) Providing support to SAE (Society of Automotive Engineering) Technicians Bill Chicoine Title Technician Room H 0024-20 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 7906 E-mail wchicoin@alcor.concordia.ca Jose Esteves Title Technician Room EV004.152 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 7933 E-mail esteves@encs.concordia.ca Gilles Huard Title Technician Room H 1055-00 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 8798 E-mail gilles.huard@concordia.ca Duties Operating and assisting in the following undergraduate labs: MECH 373, MECH 470, MECH 471, MECH 473, MECH 480 Planning and developing laboratories for controls, microprocessors, industrial electronics, instrumentations and measurement Supervising the functionality and safety of Capstone projects involving electronic circuits Inspiring graduate students who have electronic questions Fixing/troubleshooting broken electronic apparatus in the department Rudi Krueger Title Technician Room H 1062-00 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3199 E-mail rkrueger@encs.concordia.ca Duties Operating and assisting in the following undergraduate labs: MECH 211, MECH 321, MECH 351 Providing guidance and support for Capstone projects ( hydraulics, pneumatics, machining and repair) Loaning equipment, material storage, rapid prototyping, as well as helping out in EDMl as required Brad Luckhart Title Technician Room H 1045-02 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3149 E-mail bluckhar@encs.concordia.ca Duties Operating and assisting in the following undergraduate labs: (MECH 343, MECH 361, MECH 443, MECH 447, MECH 461) Specializing in apparatus for vibration, heat, fluids and gases, as well as industrial automation Alex MacPherson Title Technician Room H 0025-1 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 7954 E-mail macphers@alcor.concordia.ca Robert Oliver Title Technician Room H 1061-00 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 8797 E-mail oliver@encs.concordia.ca Duties Operating and assisting in the following undergraduate labs:  MECH 321, MECH 421,  MECH 423, MECH 351 Providing guidance and support for Capstone projects ( hydraulics, pneumatics, machining and fixturing of experiment setups) Testing materials on the MTS and the Instron tensile machines as well as other equipment. Fixing/troubleshooting broken apparatus within the department. Henry Szczawinski Title Technician Room EV0S3.419 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 2984 E-mail henrys@encs.concordia.ca Duties Operating and assisting in the following undergraduate labs:  MECH 352, MECH 452, and Composite laboratories Providing support for electron microscopes, vacuum systems, clean rooms, electro-mechanics/mechatronics, controls, instrumentation, and fabrication and fixturing of experiment setups. Professional staff Dan Juras Title Technical Officer Room EV003.282 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3128 E-mail juras@encs.concordia.ca Duties Managing the departmental technical resources, equipment, laboratories, and infrastructure General safety supervision and management of the MIE laboratories Supervising the technical support staff Dominic Ng Title Engineer in Residence Room EV003.286 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3746 E-mail dng@encs.concordia.ca Duties Providing guidance and support for Capstone projects as well as other mechanical engineering projects in the department Managing the development and operation of the design and manufacturing laboratories Managing the staff in the design and manufacturing laboratories Peter Sakaris Title Laboratory Specialist Room H 1047-00 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3153 E-mail peter.sakaris@concordia.ca Duties Develop and design undergraduate laboratory experiments in the field of thermo-fluid and materials. Update and/or create laboratory manuals for the undergraduate students. Train and supervise lab instructors to perform their required tasks. Provide on-site support to the lab demonstrators. Recommend process improvements of the thermo-fluid and material laboratories. Perform research for new equipment and recommend future purchases. Petre Tzenov Title Laboratory Coordinator Room EV004.183 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 8670 E-mail tzenov@encs.concordia.ca Duties Ensuring that the day-to-day operation of the teaching labs run smoothly Managing the undergraduate lab schedule Organizing the development of up-to-date lab manuals Planning and developing new experiments with faculty and staff members Recommending and participating in the purchase of new equipment Preparing workload assignments for teaching assistants Organizing the training of lab demonstrators and supervision of teaching assistants Tianhe Wen Title Laboratory Specialist Room H 1060 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 3127 E-mail wen@encs.concordia.ca Duties Assures that quality of the laboratory is maintained through the training and supervision of laboratory demonstrators and students in the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering undergraduate laboratories. Wen is responsible for the following areas; control, electronics, instrumentation, system modeling, microprocessors and micro-controllers, mechatronics, flight control systems, automation. theory of machines and vibration. Assists and guides the demonstrators in the laboratory instructional environment and, along with a faculty member and technician, develops and designs laboratory experiments and writes and updates the laboratory manuals for his area. Michael Rembacz Title Manufacturing and Machining Instructor Room H 0024 Phone 514-848-2424 ext: 8671 E-mail michael.rembacz@concordia.ca Duties Instructing students in machining and manufacturing  (MECH 311) Guiding, advising and supervising of students manufacturing projects Developing curriculum for EDML and ECT (extra-curricular training) Providing support to Capstone projects Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
82docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty Accolades, May 2014 SAEs first-place finish in Detroit, recognition for aerospace research, and annual design awards in mechanical and industrial engineering Posted on April 30, 2014 | By: Laurence Miall Source:  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Photo credit: Dan Juras The Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) World Congress and Exhibition in Detroit, Michigan is one of the biggest car industry events of the year. It was on this international stage that, on  April 8, 2014,  Concordia's student chapter of the SAE and its Supermileage project clinched first place in the prestigious Student Exhibit Competition. Concordia's team finished ahead of 10 others, including groups from Puerto Rico, the United States and, closer to home, the cole Polytechnique de Montral. The competition's judges included industry experts from companies like General Motors, Ford, Chrysler and NASCAR. Photo credit: Concordia University Suong Hoa, professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, and his research collaborators, were awarded first place in the project category at the research forum of the  Consortium de Recherche et innovation synergtiques en arospatiale  (CRIAQ), hosted in Montreal  April 16-17, 2014 . Hoa worked with fellow Concordian, Minguan Chen, along with Pascal Hubert from McGill University and Goran Fernlund from the University of British Columbia on a project funded by the  Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council  of Canada (NSERC). The teams research resulted in a prototype built out of composite materials using what is called out of autoclave manufacturingthat is, cured in an oven only. This project has great potential of lowering the overall costs of materials used in the aerospace industry. This team worked on a Capstone project sponsored by Mega Brands to improve the quality of the products from the packaging production line. The team designed, manufactured, assembled and tested the parts on both test rig and production machine. Photo credit: Dan Juras Congratulations to all the members of the prize-winning teams at the annual Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Design Awards Day. Among so many strong projects, here were the prize-winners. Richard Cheng Design Award for Mechanical Engineering Project: Mars Rover. Team members - Vanessa Cheng, Bingzi Li, Stephanie Lambrinakos-Raymond, Ivan Ivanov, Nicholas Di Virgilio, Stefanos Dermenakis, Mercedes Parrella-Ilaria. 1 st  and 2 nd  Prize Capstone Design Awards for Mechanical Engineering Project: Carbon-Fibre Monocoque Body for the Concordia SAE Super-Mileage Team. Team members: Mehran Eimanlou, Norvan Gharabegi, Daniel Woo, Alexandre Laroche, Tareq El Alami Project: Design of a complete heart duplicator. Team members: Alexandre Blanger, Emilia Benevento, Kevin Caro, Giuseppe Di Labbio, Nick Ghaffari, Brittney Hachey, Vahid Noohi, Oliviero Radack. Capstone Design Award for Industrial Engineering Project: MUHC Ambulatory Care Centre at the Glen Cancer Centre.  Team members: Amy Tuyet Nhi Ma, Elizabeth Mokrusa, Johnny Alberto Paredes Seminario, Rodger Ragasa, Pardeep Trehan. Mega Brands Prizes for Design Project: Design and process improvement on packaging production line, sponsored by Mega Brands   Team members: MBaye Diagne, Jason Gagnon, Mohamad Hallak, Akosua Osei-Bonsu, Turki Halawani, Elodie Marchand, Mina Jafari, Yassin Ahmed Project: Design and process improvement on packaging production line, sponsored by Mega Brands Team members: Tarek Elewa, Didier Calixte, Oscar Ulises Maldonado Nunez, Payam Rizvi, Philippe Kaplo, Ratanang Kubanj, Simon Sidarous Silas Katz Award -Tayeb Zitouni Certificates of Merit for undergraduate student involvement in extracurricular activities through student associations -Joyce Alfara, IIE President -Space Concordia members: Mercedes Parrella , Nicholas Velenosi, Neil Woodcock, Ivan Ivanov, Mehdi Sabzalian, Karol Laguna-Elliott Related Topics awards engineering accolades Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
83docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty Accolades, June 2014 Posted on June 17, 2014 | By: Laurence Miall Source:  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Peter Rigby , assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering, was one of four winners of Concordias 2014 University Research Award. Rigby has described the aim of his research as being like sociology in a software engineering context. He explains: Software firms have begun releasing products more quickly. For example, Facebook releases a new version of its software to over one billion users twice a day. In collaboration with the Department of National Defence, Microsoft and other organisations, we are creating statistical models to understand the impact of quickly released features on software quality& A model of 'how fast is too fast' will allow different firms to determine how quickly they can release new features, and provide a sound basis on which to make decisions that affect the success of a company. The other winners of this years research award were Daniel Cross, Gilles Peslherbe, and Thien Thanh Dang-Vu. Glenn Cowan , associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has won the Concordia Emerging Leadership Award. This award recognizes exceptional leadership abilities and achievement. Cowan joined Concordia in 2007, and has since been active on numerous committees at the department and faculty levels, as well as in the School of Graduate Studies. He has assumed these leadership roles while retaining a very productive and active research agenda, said Jorgen Hansen, vice-provost of Faculty Relations. Cowan has also demonstrated exceptional leadership in curriculum development, most notably in his work to establish an Electronic/Very Large Scale Integration option in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. The winning team at Acfas 2014. Photo credit: Hombeline Dumas Rolf Wthrich , associate professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, and his research team won first prize at the business case competition held during the 82nd International Congress of Acfas (Association canadienne-franaise pour l'avancement des sciences), this year was hosted by Concordia, May 12-16, 2014. Wthrichs team developed an innovative catalyst for producing hydrogen, thanks to a patented electrochemical treatment. This innovation means that nickel electrodesthe industry standardare rendered almost as efficient at production as when platinum is used as a catalyst. Lyes Kadem , associate professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, has won the Presidents Excellence in Teaching Award. He begins each of his lectures in thermodynamics by introducing a real-world engineering problem, which he then relates to the course material. As Christopher Trueman, interim dean of the Faculty of Engineering, points out, this simple technique has proven remarkably successful in motivating students in thermodynamics to appreciate the importance of this fundamental course. The other winners of the teaching award this year were Philippe Caignon, Lan Lin, and Santo Roman. Amir Ajorlou , a recently-graduated student supervised by Amir Aghdam in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has been nominated for the Best Ph.D. Thesis Award in the Province of Quebec.  His thesis was called Connectivity Preservation in Distributed Control of Multi-Agent System. Ajorlou is a two-time gold medal winner of the International Mathematical Olympiad, and the author of over 30 papers in the most prestigious journals and conferences in control systems, which to date been cited over 200 times. He obtained his Ph.D. from Concordia University in 2013, and is currently a postdoctoral research fellow at the University of Pennsylvania. Supermileage team win the 35th Anniversary Endurance Award Concordia SAE , the student chapter of the Society of Automotive Engineers, has wrapped up an impressive racing season. The Supermileage teams year started off exceptionally when they won first place in the prestigious Student Exhibit Competition at the SAE World Congress and Exhibition in Detroit, April 8. The Supermileage team went on to win the 35th Anniversary Endurance Award (minimum of five successful fuel economy runs) at the SAE Supermileage event held  June 5-6 at Eatons Proving Grounds in Marshall, Michigan .   Meanwhile, the Formula SAE team finished fifteenth in Design Judging at the Formula SAE contest at the Michigan International Speedway in Brooklyn, Michigan  a great achievement since this is the biggest Formula SAE event in the world. Space Concordia  finished second to the University of Victoria in the second Canadian Satellite Design Challenge. In total, 11 teams started this competition; five made it to the final stage, held at the David Florida Laboratory in Ottawa, May 27-29, 2014. Concordias ConSat-1 team won the inaugural competition in September 2012. Space Concordias second contest entry, ConSat-2, also known as Aleksandr  a name chosen by the largest individual donor to the teams successful Kickstarter fundraising campaign  was created to test self-healing material in space. The material  supplied by Suong V. Hoa, professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering  may have the ability to prolong the lifespan of space structures. Dan Juras , technical officer in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, has been awarded a Safety Ambassador Award by Environmental Health & Safety. This is a recognition of the tough but important job that Dan does keeping students and researchers safe in the labs. And to all the students celebrating their Convocation this spring, CONGRATULATIONS! Related Topics engineering Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
84docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty Accolades - October Posted on October 1, 2014 | By: Laurence Miall Source:  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Peter Rigby , assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering, was one of four winners of Concordias 2014 University Research Awards. His overarching research interest is in understanding how developers collaborate to produce successful software systems. His research program is driven by a desire to determine empirically the factors that lead to the development of successful software and to adapt, apply, and validate these techniques in different settings. Glenn Cowan,  associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has won the Concordia Emerging Leadership Award. This award recognizes exceptional leadership abilities and achievement. Cowan is a member of the VLSI research group, which conducts work in the fields large scale integrated circuits  i.e. design and implementation of analog-mixed signal circuits, integrated sensors, and VLSI systems for signal processing, communications, robotics and other applications. Lyes Kadem , associate professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, won the Presidents Excellence in Teaching Award. In addition to his teaching duties, Kadem conducts research as the director of the Laboratory of Cardiovascular Fluid Dynamics. The lab researches the cardiovascular system from an engineering aspect, using engineered cardiac simulators. As for his teaching philosophy, Kadem says, I can summarize my thoughts on teaching in one line: a piece of chalk, a blackboard, and to make it simple, like my teachers taught me. Christian Moreau  in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering has been elected as President of the Thermal Spray Society of ASM International [American Society for Metals] for a two-year term. Moreau is a Tier 1 Canada Research Chair whose team develops diagnostics and modeling tools to improve coating materials and to tailor them for optimum performance in industrial applications. His work will improve energy efficiency and can boost economic growth in the aerospace sector. Govind Gopakumar  in the Centre for Engineering in Society has received a grant from the Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute, a well-established institution in international academic exchange supported by the Government of Canada and Government of India. The grant is a Partnership Development Grant for $5,000 and will support a design process to create a manifesto for inclusive buses in Bangalore, India. The Canadian Association of Composite Structures and Materials has created a new student award that bears the name of  Suong Hoa  from the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. The award is called the Professor Suong V. Hoa Student Paper Award and will be presented for the first time in a special session of the Canadian-International Composites Conference to be held in Edmonton, Alberta next summer. The prize is valued at $1,000 for the first-place winne, $500 for the second-place winner, and $250 for the third-place winner. Related Topics General interest Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
85docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs A blend of fundamentals and theory, practical applications, and hands-on learning with opportunities for both  work and study terms  gives our students a valuable degree ready for engineering in the real world. Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Subjects Mechanical Engineering Build engines. Design robots. Control explosions. As a mechanical engineer, you will create, construct and control machines. Whether its a vehicle, an aircraft engine or an assembly line, mechanical engineers know how to fit that square peg into a round hole, and do it with a little finesse. Industrial Engineering Use your knowledge of human behaviour, equipment, information and modes of communication to develop processes that work. Industrial engineers are experts in optimization who apply mathematics, engineering and psychological principles to improve productivity, safety and quality. A knack for project management can lead to a career in many different economic sectors. Degrees Undergraduate Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering Bachelor of Industrial Engineering Graduate MASc. in Mechanical Engineering MASc. in Industrial Engineering M. Eng in Mechanical Engineering M. Eng in Industrial Engineering Master of Aerospace Engineering PhD Program in   Mechanical Engineering PhD Program in  Industrial Engineering Graduate Certificate in  Mechanical Engineering Co-op and CIADI Courtesy of Bombardier Inc. Co-op Program This program, which alternates work and study terms, is available to students in: Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering Bachelor of Industrial Engineering M. Eng in Mechanical Engineering M. Eng in Industrial Engineering Learn more Concordia Institute of Aerospace Design & Innovation (CIADI) The following students also have the opportunity to join CIADI. Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering Bachelor of Industrial Engineering Master of Aerospace Engineering Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
86docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Facilities & services > Research Labs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Labs A wide variety of state-of-the-art facilities are available for the research activities of our  faculty , students, post-doctoral fellows & invited researchers. Our Researchers Contact us Automated Fiber Placement (AFP) Lab Room: EV-0S2.309 Learn more Composites Manufacturing Laboratory Rooms: EV-14.225 Learn more Fluid Mechanics Room: EV-0S3.460 Learn more Metallurgy Laboratory Room: EV-14.150 Learn more Polymer Science and Rheology Laboratory Room: EV-13.210 Learn more Space Structures Vibration Laboratory Room: EV-0S2.347 Learn more Vehicular Ergonomics Laboratory Room: EV-0S3.335 Learn more Bio-MEMS Laboratory Room: EV-12.150 Learn more Controls & Mechatronics Group Room: EV-0S2.355 Learn more Fuel & Combustion Laboratory Rooms: EV-001.207-215 Learn more Materials Laboratory (EV-13.205) Room: EV-13.205 Learn more Metrology & Micromachining Room: EV-013.301 Learn more Surfaces and Interfaces Laboratory Room: EV-0S2.310 Learn more Cardiovascular Fluid Dynamics Room: EV-0S2.101 Learn more Concordia Silicon Microfabrication Lab (ConSiM) Learn more Hitachi Scanning Electron Microscope Laboratory Room: EV-14.173 Learn more Materials Laboratory (EV-13.148) Room: EV-13.148 Learn more Multiphase Flow Laboratory Room: EV-14.154 Learn more Tactile Sensors Laboratory Room: EV-12.154 Learn more Composites Testing and Characterization Lab Room: EV-0S3.431 Learn more Electro-Catalytic Green Engineering Group Room: EV-14.205 Learn more Human Factors Room: EV-014.161 Learn more MEGA (Mini Electron Gun Accelerator) Room: EV-008.161 Learn more Optical-Bio Microsystems Laboratory Room: EV-13.215 Learn more Thermal Spray Laboratory Room: LB-762 Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
87docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Facilities & services > Teaching Labs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Teaching Labs Our newly renovated teaching labs offer a unique, hands-on, learning environment. Lab Safety IT Support (AITS) Analysis and Design of Control Systems Room: H-1051 Learn more Electronics and Instrumentation Room: H-1053 Learn more Heat Transfer Laboratory Room: H-1045 Learn more Mechanical Design Laboratory Room: H-1067 Learn more Vehicle Dynamics Room: H-1066 Learn more Anatomy of Engineering Room: H-1067 Learn more Engineering Design and Manufacturing Lab (EDML) Room: H-0024 Learn more Human Factors Room: H-0829 Learn more Modelling, Simulation and Control Systems Room: H-0822 Learn more Vibrations Room: H-1064 Learn more Computer Integrated Manufacturing Lab Room: H-0829 Learn more Flight Control systems Room: H-867 Learn more Materials I Laboratory Room: H-1059 Learn more Theory of Machines Room: H-1040 Learn more Control Systems and Mechatronics Room: H-1057 Learn more Fluids Mechanics/Gas Dynamics Laboratory Room: H-1049 Learn more Materials II Laboratory Room: H-1058 Learn more Thermodynamics Laboratory Room: H-1063 Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
88docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Facilities & services > Lab Safety Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Lab Safety Safety is a number one priority in our Engineering Program as supported by University policy  VPS-40 . Teaching laboratories are supervised by trained technical staff who also have completed first aid & CPR training. Dr. Jayan Ozhikandathil in front of a nano particle enclosure used for the safe transfering of nano materials into solution. Laboratory Safety Guidelines Students are required to follow our  laboratory safety guidelines  and to be aware of  emergency procedures . We work closely with the  Environmental Health and Safety  office (EH&S). Any student who has a question regarding safety can contact the department safety officer or EH&S for assistance. Every project requires attention and the prioritization of safety principles, training required, hazard identification, risk analysis and hazard mitigation. The department safety committee comprised of of faculty, students and staff meet regularly to discuss safety and training. Safety Training Events Consult this calendar  of safety training events encompassing chemical handling, hazardous materials, corrosives, lasers, radioactive materials. Technical Officer Dan Juras Title Technical Officer Room: EV003.282 Phone: 514-848-2424 ext: 3128 Fax: 514-848-3171 E-mail: juras@encs.concordia.ca Duties: Managing the departmental technical resources, equipment, laboratories, and infrastructure General safety supervision and management of the MIE laboratories Supervising the technical support staff Campus Security Phone:  514-848-3717 Dial 1 for emergencies Dial 2 for non-emergencies General Inquiries Technical Officer Phone:  514-848-3717 Ext 3128 Room:   EV003.282 E-mail Download Emergency Procedure Manual Safety Regulations for Students in all MIE Laboratories Related Links Concordia Environmental Health & Safety Concordia Emergency Procedures Video Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
89docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News More latest news To infinity and beyond: Space Concordia rub shoulders with the astronautical elite October 3, 2014 Bone scaffold: engineering a game-changing health innovation July 16, 2014 New PhD and Certificate programs June 16, 2014 Four exceptional professors honoured with Presidents Excellence in Teaching Awards( June 4, 2014 10 District 3 innovators put their skills to the test June 4, 2014 Concordia engineering students pack big innovations into tiny cars April 23, 2014 ENCS Notices November 24, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 21, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 26, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing October 31, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak November 26, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 21, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry More notices Events More events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition MIE Notices October 1, 2014 Faculty Accolades - October June 17, 2014 Faculty Accolades, June 2014 Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
90docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Current students > Graduate students Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Graduate students Join the  MIE Graduate Student Committee Facebook page ! General Graduate Registration Information Class schedule Engineering course descriptions Course change form : Drop/Add Authorization to Register as a Non-Degree Student (Independent/Visiting) Verify course registration:  MyConcordia Portal On-line Registration (M.Eng ONLY) Please Note:  On-line registration is available to  CURRENT  M.Eng. students only. NEW students are NOT permitted to register on-line for their first semester . On line Registration information for  M. ENG AEROSPACE On line Registration information for  M. ENG INDUSTRIAL On line Registration information for  M. ENG MECHANICAL MASc & PhD students Consult with your thesis supervisor on course selection and get his/her signature of approval on the Registration Form. The following courses need NOT be registered: ENGR 8901: MASc thesis ENCS 8501: PhD Comprehensive Examination ENCS 8511: Doctoral Research Proposal ENCS 8911: PhD thesis Ph.D. students may register for ENCS 8011 (Ph.D. Seminar) only after they have completed ENCS 8511 (Doctoral Research Proposal). Graduate Studies Handbook Graduate Thesis information Students must submit the thesis to the Thesis Office at least 6 weeks before the defence date for PhD thesis and 3-weeks for M.A.Sc thesis. Thesis Handbook Current students Undergraduate students Mechanical Option Selection FAQ Course sequences Capstone Engineering Design Project Graduate students Contacts Graduate and Ph.D. Program Director Dr. Ali Dolatabadi Graduate M. Eng and M.A.Sc. Program Director Dr. Sivakumar Narayanswamy Aerospace Program Director Dr. Marius Paraschivoiu Graduate Program Coordinator (Ph.D. and Aerospace) Leslie Hosein Graduate Program Coordinator (M. Eng, M.A.Sc. and Certificate) Charlene Wald Join the Conversation MIE Graduate Student Committee Thesis Database The Thesis Office produces an  online database  of all theses produced since 1978. It is searchable by convocation, degree, supervisor, thesis title key words or student. Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
91docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Current students > Undergraduate students Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Undergraduate students Course Sequences & Registration When and how do I register? Registration in specific course sections is on a first-come first-serve basis. Students are strongly recommended to register for immediately at the beginning of the registration cycle. For complete registration info as well as exact start dates please consult  Course Registration . Additional rules regarding registration regulations and pre-requisites are outlined in the  Undergraduate Calendar, section 71.10.4 . How many courses will I be taking? Full-time students take from 4 to 6 courses per semester. You should adhere to the suggested  Course Sequence s for your program in order to avoid scheduling conflicts or lack of pre-requisites. If you feel that you need a reduced course load, or have any other concerns, please see your Undergraduate Program Assistant for advice before dropping any of your courses. What if I fall out-of-sequence or need to re-schedule a work-term? Students who are out-of-sequence may encounter course scheduling conflicts, exam schedule conflicts, be missing critical prerequisites, or find a lack of course offerings to suit their needs. For these reasons, we encourage out-of-sequence students to try and get back into our reccomended sequences as soon as possible. If you are anticipating a change of sequence or have already received your Change of Sequence Form from Co-op, please follow the steps below BEFORE contacting your Undergraduate Program Assistant/Director. Once you have a plan laid out, we will review it with you and approve it if necessary (i.e. Co-op students). Step 1:  Find and review your current official  Course Sequence . Step 2:  Review the pre-requisite requirements for your remaining courses. You can use the Sequence Flowcharts ( Mechanical Flowchart  or  Industrial Flowchart ) in addition to the course descriptions in the  Undergraduate Calendar  to assist you. Step 3:  Research the availability of your necessary courses using the current  Class Schedule and Registration Guide . Many common core courses are offered in the evening, or in both fall and winter semesters, and in the summer as well. Our schedule may change from year to year, but it is a good place to start your planning. Step 4:  Draft out a plan of your remaining courses. You may use this  Sequence Template  if you wish. Note: Co-op students may have additional rules and regulations to follow. Please review your  Co-op Handbook  for details. Step 5:  Have your Undergraduate Program Assistant/Director review and approve your plan. Mechanical Engineering Course Sequences Option Selection FAQ Sequence Flowchart Industrial Engineering Course Sequences Technical Electives Sequence Flowchart Course Information Important links Other ENCS Form and Style Guide Expectations of Originality Form Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Report (ENGR 412) Capstone Engineering Design Project (MECH/INDU 490) Undergraduate Academic Dates Academic Integrity Code of Conduct What is Plagiarism? CIADI Co-op Institute Co-op Handbook ENCS Helpdesk IT Support MyConcordia Portal ECA Student Associations Current students Undergraduate students Mechanical Option Selection FAQ Course sequences Capstone Engineering Design Project Graduate students Contacts Undergraduate and Co-op Program Director Dr. Henry Hong Undergraduate Curriculum Director Dr. Gerard Gouw Undergraduate and Co-op Program Assistant Sabrina Poirier Additional Registration Information University Writing Test Requirement Student Academic Services (SAS) Undergraduate Class Schedule ENCS Course list Registration guide Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
92docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Mechanical  & Industrial Engineering (MIE) Home About the department Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Research Facilities & services Teaching Labs Research Labs Lab Safety Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering (MIE) > Student life > Student & Professional Associations Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student & professional associations Alumni Network - ENCS As a graduate of the Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science, you are a valued member of a network of over 15,000 alumni throughout the world. Staying connected to our alma mater brings many rewards, not least of which is the networking opportunity at our many events. You'd be surprised at the pace of positive developments at Concordia University, and your alumni chapter will keep you abreast of all the latest news.  Learn more Student associations Association Facebook E-mail ECA  (Engineering and Computer Science Association) GSA  (Concordia Graduate Student Association) ECSGA  (Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association) CASI  (Canadian Aeronautics and Space Institute) CASI Concordia casi@ecaconcordia.ca CSME  (Canadian Society for Mechanical Engineering) CSME Concordia csme@ecaconcordia.ca CSU  (Concordia Student Union) IIE  (Institute of Industrial Engineering) IIE Concordia Chapter iie@ecaconcordia.ca SAE  (Society of Automotive Engineers) Concordia SAE sae@concordiasae.ca Space Concordia Space Concordia info@spaceconcordia.ca Women in Engineering Women in Engineerig Concordia wie@ecaconcordia.ca Quebec Engineering Games Concordia Team 2K14 Concordia Eng Games enggames@ecaconcordia.ca EWB  (Engineers Without Borders) concordia@ewb.ca Professional associations Association Facebook E-mail OIQ  (Ordre des ingnieurs du Quebec) Engineers Canada IIE  (Institute of Industrial Engineers) Engineers without borders Canada Join the Conversation Follow @ENCSConcordia Concordia Engineering ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Admissions Current Undergraduate Students Current Graduate Students Student Academic Services Job Opportunities Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 4.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
93docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News More latest news $1.3 million grant bolsters aerospace research in Montreal November 25, 2014 Biomedical research scientist receives high Indian honour November 5, 2014 Information overload? Theres a Big Data Consortium for that November 4, 2014 High backs? Low backs? Red chairs? Yellow chairs? October 27, 2014 Canadian Space Agency president finds the future of astronautical engineering excellence at Concordia October 23, 2014 11 new University Research Chairs embody Concordias numerous strengths October 15, 2014 ENCS Notices November 24, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 21, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 26, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing October 31, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak November 26, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 21, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry More notices Events More events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition Notices November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 25, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
94docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact If you know who you're searching for at CIISE,  visit our staff page . Search in Concordia Directory Graduate Program Enquiries View larger map How to find us By air If you are traveling by air, flights from North America and abroad now come into  Montral-Trudeau Airport , 22 km west of downtown Montreal. The Arobus bus service to downtown Montreal costs $14 one way (as of June 2007). Upon arrival at the terminus on Berri and de Maisonneuve Sts., either take a taxi or the subway (mtro) to the EV building , which is located on St. Catherine street. If you take the subway, travel in the Angrignon direction (green line) and exit at the Guy-Concordia stop you will have access to EV building from the metro exit. Another option from the airport is to take the #204 public transit bus heading to the Dorval bus terminal, then take the #211 heading downtown. Get off at Lionel-Groulx mtro (subway) station, and take the green line in the Honor-Beaugrand direction, to Guy-Concordia station. See the  Aroports de Montral  website for further transportation information. By train Traveling to Montreal by train will bring you to Central Station, which is just a few blocks from Concordia on Ren-Lvesque Blvd. West, near Mansfield Street (Blvd. Rn-Lvesque Ouest et rue Mansfield) You may either walk to the EV building, or take a short taxi ride. Train schedules are available online at  VIA Rail  (for journeys within Canada) and  Amtrak  (for journeys from the USA). Commuter train schedules are available from the the  Agence mtropolitaine de transport  (AMT). By car If you are coming to Montreal from the east or south (highways 10, 15, or 20), take the Dcarie Expressway (Autoroute Dcarie) to Sherbrooke St. West (rue Sherbrooke Ouest), exit 64. If you are coming to Montreal from the north or west (highways 15, 20, or 40), take the Dcarie Expressway (Autoroute Dcarie) to Sherbrooke St. West (rue Sherbrooke Ouest), exit 64. To get to Sir George Williams from exit 64: Drive east on Sherbrooke St. for 3.5 km and turn right onto Mackay St. (rue Mackay). Metered parking is available in the downtown core. There is a public parking lot in the J.W. McConnell Building. The entrance is on Mackay. To get to Loyola Campus from exit 64: Drive west on Sherbrooke St. for 2.7 km. You may find parking on the street, or use the university visitors' parking lot. By bus or subway The Berri-UQAM station is the final destination for all bus lines into the city. Upon arrival you may either take a taxi or take the mtro (subway), which is located below the bus station. Travel in the Angrignon direction (green line) and exit at the Guy-Concordia stop; you will have access to EV building from the metro exit. Contact us CIISE: 514-848-2424 ext. 5847 General enquiries reception@ciise.concordia.ca Graduate program enquiries graduate@ciise.concordia.ca Fax:  514-848-3171 Location CIISE General Information, 1515 Ste-Catherine Street West, EV 7.640 Montral, Qubec, Canada, H3G 2W1 Mailing address Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West,  EV 7.640 Montral, Qubec, Canada, H3G 1M8 Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
95docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services CIISE research is powered by cutting-edge equipment and computing facilities. Learn more about our three Research Labs. IT support (AITS) Contact us Computer Security Laboratory Leading research in information systems security Learn more Design Laboratory Enhancing designers' capacity for innovation & creativity Learn more Telecommunications Service Engineering Research Laboratory Services are the reason of next generation telecommunication networks. Learn more Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
96docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student Banking 101 Learn about the basics of student bank products and make the right choice November 26, 2014, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM The Financial Aid and Awards Office of Concordia University invites all current and future Concordia students to the  Student Banking 101  workshop. In this free workshop, you will learn about the basics of student bank products and will get tips that can help you choose the right products for you. These tips will help you save money and help foster a positive start to your credit history. How to sign up for Financial Literacy Week workshops Go to the  MyConcordia portal Click on Financial Aid and Awards in the left sidebar Click on Workshops Follow the instructions to reserve your place Where Room GM-230-18, Guy-Metro Building  (1550 De Maisonneuve W.), Sir George William Campus Cost This event is free Speakers Kathy Antonopoulos, Luiza-Elisabeta Tudor Organizer Atosa Tangestanifar Organization Financial Aid and Awards Office Website Financial Aid and Awards Office website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 7855 Category Workshops & seminars Export event Other Dates November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 November 28, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
97docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Get the flu shot Book your appointment today to protect yourself and others from the flu November 26, 2014, 9:00 AM – 3:30 PM The health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year. Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe. Flu vaccine clinics start November 18. Come by  Health Services  or drop by the weekly  Healthy YOU at CU information tables  to discuss your questions and concerns with a nurse or health promotion specialist. Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from  WebMD Check out the  Health Services flu clinic schedule ! Where Room AD-307, Administration Building  (7141 Sherbrooke W.), Loyola Campus Cost Free to those who meet the criteria Organization Health Services Website Health Services website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 5276 Category Other events Export event Other Dates November 18, 2014 November 19, 2014 November 21, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
98docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research As an interdisciplinary fundamental research & R&D learning institute, CIISE houses state-of-the-art research in innovative applications of information systems. Researchers Research Labs Research Laboratories CIISE has three affiliated  research laboratories . Our research is powered by cutting-edge equipment and computing facilities. Grants & Funding CIISE has received over 3.4 million research funding from  various sources , including NSERC, DND, NATEQ, Infrastructure Canada, MRST, PROMPT-Qubec, and Concordia University. Researchers by Topic: Information Systems Security Chadi Assi Mourad Debbabi Mohammad Mannan Lingyu Wang Amr Youssef Jeremy Clark System Engineering - Design Yong Zeng Anjali Awasthi Chun Wang Network, Telecommunication Engineering Chadi Assi Rachida Dssouli Roch Glitho System Engineering - Image Processing & Computer Graphics Nizar Bouguila Abdessamad Ben Hamza Systems Engineering Anjali Awasthi Jamal Bentahar Amin Hammad Andrea Schiffauerova Chun Wang Yong Zeng Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
99docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Graduate Certificate (Grad. Cert.) *Admission suspended for 2015-2016 Why pursue a graduate certificate in 3D Graphics & Game Development? The electronic entertainment industry has become one of the largest and fastest growing industries in Canada , and has a large representation in the Montreal area. The 3D Graphics and Game Development Certificate is designed for graduate students who wish to gain basic and advanced skills which will assist them in the development of software for computer graphics, multimedia, and games, and for employment in the electronic entertainment industry. Program details Degree requirements & curriculum Requirements for Completion: Credits.  A minimum of 16 credits. Courses.  Candidates in the graduate certificate program must take 16 credits of the following core courses: INSE 6510 Video Game Technology and Development COMP 6761 Advanced 3D Graphics for Game Programming INSE 6530 3D Graphics and Computer Animation for Game Design COMP 7661 Advanced Rendering and Animation for 3D Games Prerequisites Special Permission must be obtained from the Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering. Good Standing.  Students who have completed at least two courses will be assessed in June of each year. To be permitted to continue, students must have obtained a weighted cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of at least 3.00. Graduation.  To be eligible to graduate, students must have obtained a CGPA of at least 3.00. For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Admission requirements Admission Requirements The admission requirement will be a Bachelor of Engineering or Computer Science with a CGPA of at least 3.00 or equivalent, as well as knowledge in software engineering/development. The Institute will recommend on the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require the applicant to do specific remedial course work to meet the program requirements. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Download Brochure Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
100docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Master of Engineering (MEng) Why pursue a master's in quality systems engineering? The main intent of this program is twofold: First, the program is meant to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, expertise in cutting-edge technologies and best practices necessary for designing, modelling, analyzing, implementing and managing quality systems. Second, the program will put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in quality systems, lean engineering and supply chain management. Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the quality of systems, services, products and processes. Program details Program options & degree requirements Options Applicants to the Master of Engineering may apply to the  Industrial Experience option  in the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. Degree Requirements The requirements described here are in addition to the general degree requirements for the Masters programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. In order to graduate, students must have a CGPA of at least 3.00. Credits.  A fully qualified candidate is required to successfully complete a minimum of 45 credits. Additional credits may be required in some cases. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than eight credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credit must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Time Limit.  All work for this MEng degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (four years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (five years). Courses.  Students must take a total of 45 credits of course work at the 6000 or 7000 level, including a minimum of 36 credits chosen from the Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineerings graduate courses. The breakdown of the 45 credits is as follows: Twelve credits from core courses in topic area E68. Twenty-four credits from six courses selected from the program elective courses in topic areas E66, E67, E68, E69 and E70. Nine credits from any topic area from departments within the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. In Topic Area E63 students shall only take ENGR 6991 or INSE 6961 or ENCS 6931. Admission requirements Admission Requirements Applicants to the Master of/Magisteriate in Engineering in Quality Systems Engineering program must hold a bachelors degree or equivalent in: Mechanical Engineering Industrial Engineering Electrical Engineering Building Engineering Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Software Engineering Computer Science Any engineering or science discipline provided that the student has the appropriate background Admission to this program is competitive and only applicants with high academic standing will be considered. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be asked to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, in consultation with the Institute, is responsible for the recommendation of all applications for admission. Residence Requirements.  The minimum residence requirement for the Masters degree is three terms (one year) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum Sample classes Total Quality Methodologies in Engineering Advanced Statistical Approaches to Quality Total Quality Project Management Quality Assurance for Systems Engineering Quality in Supply Chain Design To see curriculum requirements, please visit section above on  degree requirements . For course list, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Related Links Sample Study Plan Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
101docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Doctorate (PhD) Why pursue a doctorate in information systems engineering? The academic aim of this Ph.D. program is to prepare students for leadership roles in the area of Information and Systems Engineering (ISE) with the knowledge and skills to advance the discipline from the academic, research and practical standpoints. The Ph.D. program will prepare the students to address the current and future challenges in information and systems engineering such as designing, modeling, analyzing and managing complex systems, exploiting systems of systems, managing systems complexity, studying systems' attributes and understanding human factors in the system. The intent is also to prepare students to engage in independent and collaborative research in university, government and industrial contexts. During this educative process, doctoral students will participate in knowledge generation and improvement activities, research synthesis, and knowledge/technology transfer. See faculty research areas Program details Degree requirements Requirements for the Degree Credits.  A fully-qualified candidate entering the doctoral program with a masters degree is required to complete a minimum of 90 credits. A candidate admitted beyond the bachelors level is required to complete a minimum of 106 credits. Candidates admitted with a masters degree in a cognate discipline, or if they need additional knowledge in an area pertinent to their research, will, in general, be required to complete more than the minimum number of credits. Students may not credit any undergraduate equivalent course towards the requirements of a 90-credit or 106-credit PhD program without the permission of their supervisor and of the Graduate Program Director. Residence.  For candidates admitted with a masters degree, the minimum period of residence is two years of full-time study or the equivalent in part-time study. Part-time students may be required by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, upon the recommendation of the supervisory committee, to carry out a portion of their research on a full-time basis. Where a candidate has been admitted with a bachelors degree, the minimum period of residence is 36 months of full-time study after completion of the bachelors degree. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer credit for courses taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into their program. A course submitted for transfer credit must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Courses.  Students admitted on the basis of a masters degree will normally be required to complete a minimum of 12 credits in course work. A student admitted on the basis of a bachelors degree will normally be required to complete a minimum of 28 credits in course work. Students must also successfully complete the PhD seminar ENCS 8011 (2 credits). Each students program must be approved by a supervisory committee consisting of three members of faculty, including the students research supervisor. This supervisory committee will also arrange for the students comprehensive examination, the presentation of the doctoral research proposal, and thesis evaluation. Comprehensive Examination.  Students must take a comprehensive examination, ENCS 8501, which may be both written and oral. Normally the comprehensive examination is taken when course work has been completed and within 12 (24) months after the first registration as a full-time (part-time) student in a PhD program. Students will be assessed on the basis of written and oral examinations of fundamentals related to their field of research. The comprehensive examination will normally be administered by a committee (the Comprehensive Examination Committee) consisting of the supervisory committee, at least one member external to the candidates program and other members appointed at the discretion of the supervisory committee. Students who fail this examination are permitted to take it a second time in the following term. Students failing a second time are withdrawn from the program. Students should consult the program regarding specific examination procedures and requirements. Doctoral Research Proposal.  Upon successful completion of the comprehensive examination, students must pass the doctoral research proposal ENCS 8511 (6 credits), within 18 (36) months after the first registration as a full-time (part-time) student in a PhD program, before they are admitted to candidacy for the PhD degree. Students will be assessed on the basis of written and oral presentations that must include: (i) a critical review of previous work relevant to the subject of the thesis, and (ii) a detailed research plan of action and expected milestones. Students are required to defend their doctoral research proposal before a committee that will normally be comprised of the same members as the Comprehensive Examination Committee. Students must demonstrate the viability of their project and their capacity to undertake doctoral thesis research. The proposal may be accepted, returned for modifications, or rejected. The rejection of a proposal will result in the students withdrawal from the program. A student whose proposal is accepted will be admitted to candidacy for the PhD. Thesis.  Students are required to plan and carry out a suitable research, development, or design project, which leads to an advance in knowledge. The student must submit a thesis based upon this work and defend it in an oral examination. For purposes of registration, this work will be designated ENGR 8911 or COMP 8901: Doctoral Research and Thesis (70 credits). Theses will be examined by a committee consisting of the students supervisory committee, an external examiner, and other examiners as approved by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee and the Dean of Graduate Studies. Cross-Registration.  A student in the program wishing to take courses under the cross-registration scheme must first obtain approval of the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. (See Inter-University Agreement in  Graduate Registration  section). Time Limit.  All work for a doctoral degree must be completed within 18 terms (6 years) of full-time study or 24 terms (8 years) of part-time study from the time of original registration in the program. Admission requirements Admission Requirements.  To be considered for admission on a full-time basis, applicants normally must hold a masters degree or equivalent with high standing in engineering or computer science, or in a cognate discipline. Holders of bachelors degree will, in general, be considered for admission to a masters program only. After completion of a minimum of two terms of full-time study, they may, upon application, be considered by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee for admission to a PhD program. To be considered for admission on a part-time basis, applicants must hold a masters degree with high standing in engineering, computer science or a cognate discipline. Applicants should understand that admission is contingent not only upon a superior academic record, but also on the availability of a research supervisor, of relevant programs of study and research, as well as adequate laboratory and library facilities. Where applicable, an ability to write programs in a standard computer language will be assumed. Students lacking this skill will be required to register for appropriate courses. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum The twelve-credit course component for the PhD in Information and Systems Engineering is specified as follows: 4 credits (1 core course): INSE 6421 Systems Integration and Testing; 8 credits (2 elective courses): chosen from 6000 or 7000 numbered courses offered by the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science and approved by the thesis supervisor and graduate program director. For topic area course lists, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Faculty research interests CIISE produces a high level of multidisciplinary research activity. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of research projects sponsored by both industry and government agencies in various areas of research, classified as follows: systems engineering, software engineering, middleware, systems security, cryptography and data security, cyber forensics, incident handling, security evaluation, biometrics, communication networks, communication protocols, image processing, 3D graphics, computer vision, pattern recognition, design science, requirements engineering for product design, tele-geo-informatics, augmented reality, infrastructure and facilities management, project management, geographic information systems, statistics, supply chain management, quality management, e-business systems, decision support systems, RFID, operations research, optimization, and artificial intelligence. Research units & facilities Concordias  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science  offers modern, well equipped research laboratories and facilities for graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and other research personnel. The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering is an international centre of teaching and learning excellence established as a department within the Faculty. It promotes interdisciplinary research and development of information technologies in software and systems engineering. CIISE has three affiliated  research laboratories : Computer Security Laboratory Design Laboratory Telecommunications Service Engineering Research Laboratory Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Related documents PhD proposal information PhD seminar information PhD comprehensive exam information Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
102docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) Graduate Certificate (Grad. Cert.) Why pursue a graduate certificate in Service Engineering & Network Management? The Graduate Certificate in Service Engineering and Network Management is for qualified university graduates who wish to obtain a complete set of knowledge and expertise that is necessary to work in the area of telecommunication and enables students to acquire knowledge in the area of network management. This program can be completed in one year. Program details Degree requirements Requirements for Completion: Credits.  A minimum of 20 credits. Courses.  Candidates in the graduate certificate program must take 16 credits of core courses while the balance of 4 credits may be chosen from the elective list or other courses offered by the Institute or other ENCS departments. Good Standing.  Students who have completed at least two courses will be assessed in June of each year. To be permitted to continue, students must have obtained a weighted cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of at least 3.00. Graduation.  To be eligible to graduate, students must have obtained a CGPA of at least 3.00. Courses Core courses INSE 6120 Crypto-Protocol and Network Security ELEC 6861 Higher Layer Telecommunications Protocols INSE 7110 Value Added Service Engineering in Next Generation Networks INSE 7120 Advanced Network Management Electives INSE 6100 Advanced Java Platforms COMP 6471 Software Design Methodologies COEN 7311 Protocol Design and Validation COMP 7231 Distributed Computer Systems Prerequisites Special Permission must be obtained from the Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering. For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Admission requirements Admission Requirements The admission requirement will be a Bachelor of Engineering or Computer Science with a CGPA of at least 3.00 or equivalent as well as a good knowledge in software engineering/development. The Institute will recommend on the acceptability of an applicant for admission to the program and may require the applicant to do specific remedial course work to meet the program requirements. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Download Brochure Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
103docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Information Systems Security (MASc) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Information Systems Security (MASc) Master of Applied Science (MASc) Why pursue a master's in information systems security? The academic aim of this Master of Applied Science (M.A.Sc.) program is to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, cutting-edge technologies, expertise and best practices to be security architects capable of designing, implementing, analyzing and managing the security of real-life information systems. Second, the program will put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in information systems security. Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the security of information systems. Financial support may be provided by a thesis advisor in certain cases. This program has a  Co-op option . For details each student should contact his/her academic advisor. See faculty research areas Program details Degree requirements Degree requirements The requirements described here are in addition to the general degree requirements for the Masters programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. In order to graduate, students must have a CGPA of at least 3.00. Program of Study.  The student will follow the proposed course sequence. In addition, students have to consult with their supervisor for selecting a research topic. Students can enter this program as Co-op students. See  item 6. Thesis Credits.  A fully qualified candidate is required to successfully complete a minimum of 45 credits. Additional credits may be required in some cases. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than eight credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credit must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Time Limit.  All work for this MASc degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (four years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (five years). Courses.  Students must complete a minimum of 20 credits, including 16 credits of core courses (INSE 6110, INSE 6120, INSE 6130, and INSE 6140) and one 4-credit course as shown below: a course chosen from the topic area E69 Information Systems Security, approved by the students supervisor, or an INSE course, approved by the students supervisor and either the Graduate Program Director or the Director of the Institute. Thesis.  Students must complete a 25-credit thesis as part of their degree requirements. The thesis must represent the results of the students independent work after admission to the program. The proposed topic for the thesis, together with a brief statement outlining the proposed method of treatment, and the arrangement made for faculty supervision, must be approved by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. For purposes of registration, this work will be designated as INSE 8901. The thesis will be evaluated by the students supervisor(s), and at least two examiners appointed by Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, one of whom shall be external to the students department. Students have the option to do the thesis work within the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. The suggested schedule of the program is as follows: fall and winter terms will be dedicated to course work, followed by two or three terms for research and development in industry, culminating in one or two terms in the Institute for the writing and defence of the thesis. Each student in this case will have a supervisor from the Institute and a mentor from industry. The intellectual property will be managed according to the University policy. Admission requirements Admission requirements Applicants to the Master of/Magisteriate in Applied Science in Information Systems Security must hold a bachelors degree or equivalent in: Computer Engineering Software Engineering Computer Science Any engineering or science discipline provided that the student has a strong background in information systems Admission to the program is competitive and only applicants with high academic standing will be considered. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be asked to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, in consultation with the Institute, is responsible for the recommendation of all applications for admission. Residence requirements.  The minimum residence requirement for the Masters degree is three terms (one year) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study. Transfer from the Master of Engineering in Information Systems Security.  Students, in good standing, who have completed a minimum of 12 credits in the Master of Engineering in Information Systems Security, may apply for a transfer to the Master of Applied Science in Information Systems Security. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum To see curriculum requirements, please visit the section above on  curriculum requirements . For topic area course lists, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Faculty research interests CIISE produces a high level of multidisciplinary research activity. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of research projects sponsored by both industry and government agencies in various areas of research, classified as follows: systems engineering, software engineering, middleware, systems security, cryptography and data security, cyber forensics, incident handling, security evaluation, biometrics, communication networks, communication protocols, image processing, 3D graphics, computer vision, pattern recognition, design science, requirements engineering for product design, tele-geo-informatics, augmented reality, infrastructure and facilities management, project management, geographic information systems, statistics, supply chain management, quality management, e-business systems, decision support systems, RFID, operations research, optimization, and artificial intelligence. Research units & facilities Concordias  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science  offers modern, well equipped research laboratories and facilities for graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and other research personnel. The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering is an international centre of teaching and learning excellence established as a department within the Faculty. It promotes interdisciplinary research and development of information technologies in software and systems engineering. CIISE has three affiliated  research laboratories : Computer Security Laboratory Design Laboratory Telecommunications Service Engineering Research Laboratory Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
104docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Information Systems Security (MEng) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Information Systems Security (MEng) Master of Engineering (MEng) Why pursue a master's in information systems security? The academic aim of this Master of Engineering (M.Eng.) program is to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, cutting-edge technologies, expertise and best practices to be security architects capable of designing, implementing, analyzing and managing the security of real-life information systems. Second, the program will put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in information systems security. Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the security of information systems. Program details Program options & degree requirements Options Applicants to the Master of Engineering may apply to the  Industrial Experience option  in the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. Degree Requirements The requirements described here are in addition to the general degree requirements for the Masters programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. In order to graduate, students must have a CGPA of at least 3.00. Credits.  A fully qualified candidate is required to successfully complete a minimum of 45 credits. Additional credits may be required in some cases. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than eight credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credits must be appropriate to the students program study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Time Limit.  All work for this MEng degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (four years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (five years). Courses.  Students must take a total of 45 credits of course work at the 6000 or 7000 level. The breakdown of the 45 credits is as follows: Twenty credits of core courses (INSE 6110, 6120, 6130, 6140, 6150) from topic area E69. Twenty-five credits of 6000 or 7000 numbered courses from any topic area from departments within the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. Students shall only take one of the courses (INSE 6961, ENGR 6991, ENCS 6931) from topic area E63. Admission requirements Admission Requirements Applicants to the Master of/Magisteriate in Engineering in Quality Systems Engineering program must hold a bachelors degree or equivalent in: Mechanical Engineering Industrial Engineering Electrical Engineering Building Engineering Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Software Engineering Computer Science Any engineering or science discipline provided that the student has the appropriate background Admission to this program is competitive and only applicants with high academic standing will be considered. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be asked to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, in consultation with the Institute, is responsible for the recommendation of all applications for admission. Residence Requirements.  The minimum residence requirement for the Masters degree is three terms (one year) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum Sample classes Foundations of Cryptography Crypto-Protocol and Network Security Operating Systems Security Malware Defenses and Application Security Security Evaluation Methodologies To see curriculum requirements, please visit section above on  degree requirements . For course list, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Related Links Sample Study Plan Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
105docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs > Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Master of Applied Science (MASc) Why pursue a master's in quality systems engineering? The main intent of this program is twofold: First, the program is meant to prepare students with the skills, knowledge, expertise in cutting-edge technologies and best practices necessary for designing, modelling, analyzing, implementing and managing quality systems. Second, the program will put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in quality systems, lean engineering and supply chain management. Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the quality of systems, services, products and processes. This program has a  Co-op option . See faculty research areas Program details Degree requirements Degree Requirements The requirements described here are in addition to the general degree requirements for the Masters programs in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. In order to graduate, students must have a CGPA of at least 3.00. Program of Study.  The student will follow the proposed course sequence. In addition, students have to consult with their supervisor for selecting a research topic. Students can enter this program as Co-op students. See  item 6. Thesis Credits.  A fully qualified candidate is required to successfully complete a minimum of 45 credits. Additional credits may be required in some cases. Transfer Credits.  Students may be granted transfer academic credits for, in general, not more than eight credits taken in approved graduate studies prior to their entry into this program. A course submitted for transfer credit must be appropriate to the students program of study at Concordia University. An application for such credit will be considered only at the time of admission. Time Limit.  All work for this MASc degree for full-time students must be completed within 12 terms (four years) from the time of initial registration in the program at Concordia University; for part-time students the time limit is 15 terms (five years). Courses.  Students must take a total of 20 credits in course work. These include the three core courses specified in area E68 Quality Systems Engineering and two courses selected from the program elective courses in the topic areas E66, E67, E68, E69 and E70. The student may take a maximum of one elective course that is outside these topic areas, subject to the approval of the Graduate Program Director. Thesis.  Students must complete a 25-credit thesis as part of their degree requirements. The thesis must represent the results of the students independent work after admission to the program. The proposed topic for the thesis, together with a brief statement outlining the proposed method of treatment, and the arrangement made for faculty supervision, must be approved by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee. For purposes of registration, this work will be designated as INSE 8901. The thesis will be evaluated by the students supervisor(s), and at least two examiners appointed by the Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, one of whom shall be external to the students department. Students have the option to do the thesis work within the industrial milieu through the Institute for Co-operative Education. The suggested schedule of the program is as follows: Fall and Winter terms will be dedicated to course work, followed by two or three terms for research and development in industry, culminating in one or two terms in the Institute for the writing and the defence of the thesis. Each student in this case will have a supervisor from the Institute and a mentor from industry. The intellectual property will be managed according to the University policy. Admission requirements Admission Requirements Applicants to the Master of/Magisteriate in Applied Science in Quality Systems Engineering program must hold a bachelors degree or equivalent in: Mechanical Engineering Industrial Engineering Electrical Engineering Building Engineering Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Software Engineering Computer Science Any engineering or science discipline provided that the student has the appropriate background Admission to this program is competitive and only applicants with high academic standing will be considered. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be asked to take such courses in addition to their regular graduate program. The Faculty Graduate Studies Committee, in consultation with the Institute, is responsible for the recommendation of all applications for admission. Residence Requirements.  The minimum residence requirement for the Masters degree is three terms (one year) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study. Transfer from the Master of Engineering in Quality Systems Engineering. Students, in good standing, who have completed a minimum of 12 credits in the Master of Engineering in Quality Systems Engineering, may apply for a transfer to the Master of Applied Science in Quality Systems Engineering. Application deadlines Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Degree Fall (September) Winter (January) Summer (May/June) Aerospace Engineering MEng June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Building Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Civil Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science MACompSc / MCompSc// PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Computer Science Diploma June 1 n/a n/a Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Information and Systems Engineering PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Information Systems Security MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Quality Systems Engineering MEng / MASc June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Electrical and Computer Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Industrial Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering MEng / MASc / PhD June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Certificate in: Building Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Environmental Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Mechanical Engineering June 1 Oct. 1 Feb. 1 Service Engineering and Network Management n/a Oct. 1 Feb. 1 3D Graphics and Game Development n/a n/a n/a Course curriculum To see curriculum requirements, please visit the section above on  curriculum requirements . For topic area course lists, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . For course descriptions, please  visit the Graduate Calendar . Faculty research interests CIISE produces a high level of multidisciplinary research activity. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of research projects sponsored by both industry and government agencies in various areas of research, classified as follows: systems engineering, software engineering, middleware, systems security, cryptography and data security, cyber forensics, incident handling, security evaluation, biometrics, communication networks, communication protocols, image processing, 3D graphics, computer vision, pattern recognition, design science, requirements engineering for product design, tele-geo-informatics, augmented reality, infrastructure and facilities management, project management, geographic information systems, statistics, supply chain management, quality management, e-business systems, decision support systems, RFID, operations research, optimization, and artificial intelligence. Research units & facilities Concordias  Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science  offers modern, well equipped research laboratories and facilities for graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and other research personnel. The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering is an international centre of teaching and learning excellence established as a department within the Faculty. It promotes interdisciplinary research and development of information technologies in software and systems engineering. CIISE has three affiliated  research laboratories : Computer Security Laboratory Design Laboratory Telecommunications Service Engineering Research Laboratory Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) How to apply Key resources Graduate funding Tuition fee calculator Class schedules Graduate Calendar Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
106docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > About the Institute Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the Institute The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) is an interdisciplinary, fundamental research, R&D learning institute, housing state-of-the-art research in innovative applications of information systems to a wide range of areas, among them: Systems engineering Information systems security High-quality system engineering Communication software engineering Data mining Bioinformatics Digital forensics Embedded systems engineering Electronics Multimedia Aerospace Finance & banking Automotive Manufacturing Building & construction management History The Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering offers only  graduate programs . The relevance and importance of information technology in systems engineering has been established in several credible studies. To a large and increasing extent, software intervenes either as an embedded component of systems or as a tool that is used in the design, management, and operation of modern systems. Clearly, information systems are emerging as the core common ground of an interdisciplinary cluster of knowledge and applications. It is therefore a logical step of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science at Concordia University to create a focus on interdisciplinary research activities based on information and systems technologies. Based on the philosophy of interdisciplinary research, the Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) was established in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science on June 1, 2002. Since then, CIISE has received over 3.4 million  research funding from various sources , including NSERC, DND, NATEQ, Infrastructure Canada, MRST, PROMPT-Qubec, and Concordia University, to conduct over 30 research projects in different areas. The objectives of CIISE are: To maintain and enhance interdisciplinary areas of research based on information technology. To become a national and international center of research excellence in engineering of software and systems. To train graduate students, postdoctoral fellows and other research personnel. To attract external research funding. To foster relationships with external and internal researchers with similar interests. Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering on Facebook Follow @ENCSConcordia Concordia Engineering on Flickr Related Links Message from the CIISE director News & Events Cspace for Faculty & Staff Contact us Graduate Program Enquiries Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
107docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > News & events > Seminars Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Seminars November 25, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing November 18, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 12, 2014 Invited Speaker: Social PaL: Finding Path Length Between Two People On a Social Network November 11, 2014 CANCELLED: Invited Speaker: SDN - A Double-Edged Sword to Network Security November 7, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Visual Tools for Interacting with Large Semantic Networks October 27, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Improving End-User Cybersecurity September 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Clinical trials in computer security - Report on a world-first proof-of-concept experiment July 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Sharing Threat Intelligence to Mitigate Cyber Attacks April 23, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: The Future of Web Authentication March 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: The Grand Challenge: Securing Cyber Space, a.k.a.: Finding Things That Go Bump in the Net" Show more news 2013 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2013 Location Denial Of Service As a Service-Asymmetrical Warfare At Its Finest Robert Masse, CEO:  Swift Identity Team Dec. 2, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Ibis: An Overlay Mix Network for Microblogging Dr. Ian Goldberg, University of Waterloo Nov. 21, 4:00 pm EV2.260 Piecewise Linear Integer Multicommodity Network Flow Problems Dr. Bernard Gendron, Universit de Montral Nov. 28, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Promoting the digital contents in the European Union Dr. Annie Blandin, Institut Mines-Tlcom/Tlcom Bretagne Oct 28, 4:00 pm EV3.309 New Exact and Heuristic Algorithms for the Multiple-Vehicle Production Routing Problem Dr. Jean-Francois Cordeau, HEC Montral Oct. 17, 4:00 pm EV3.309 How to Install a Backdoor in an International Cryptographic Standard: The "Finessing" of NIST's Dual_EC_DRBG Dr. Aleksander Essex, Western University Sept. 27, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Multicasting in Cognitive Radio Networks Dr. Ahmed E. Kamal, Iowa State University Sept. 25, 10:00 am EV3.309 Privacy-preserving record linkage: Overview, a taxonomy, and scalable techniques Dr. Peter Christen, Australian National University August 5, 1:30 pm EV3.309 Serious Games for Learning and Skills Training: Challenges and Opportunities Dr. Carrie Lui, James Cook University May 2, 4 pm EV3.309 Towards Dependable Software Systems Dr. Mohammad Zulkernine, Queen's University April 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Biological Analogies and Environmental Lead-User Insights as Sources of Ideas for Conceptual Design Dr. L. H. Shu, University of Toronto Feb. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 CIISE Guest Lecture 2013 Location Big Data and Privacy Dr. Noman Mohammed, McGill University Oct. 28, 10:30 am EV3.309 2012 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2012 Location Minimizing Greenhouse Emissions in Vehicle Routing Dr. Gilbert Laporte, HEC Montral Nov. 8, 4 pm EV3.309 Analyzing Commuter Train User Behavior: A Decision Framework for Access Mode and Station Choice Dr. Naveen Eluru, McGill University Oct. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 Sustainable Supply Chain: An Overview and Outlook Dr. Vedat Verter, McGill University Oct. 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Formal and Automatic Enforcement of Security Policies Dr. Mohamed Mejri, Laval University Sept. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Supplier Development with Six sigma Tools Mr. Mutair Kadiri, Honeywell Aerospace Sept. 13, 4 pm EV3.309 Mining Large-scale Streaming and Complex Data Sets Dr. Xiangliang Zhang, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) Aug. 3, 4 pm EV2.260 How to "carbon date" digital information? Dr. Jeremy Clark, Carleton University Mar. 8, 4 pm EV1.162 The use of automatically collected data for public transit planning in Montral Dr. Alfred Chu, Agence Mtropolitaine de Transport (AMT) Feb. 9, 4 pm EV3.309 Features for machinery monitoring by vibration survey Prof. Marc Thomas, cole de technologie suprieure (TS) Jan. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 2011 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2011 Location Congratulations on Graduation - What's Next? Mr. Sukhvinder Jutla, Pratt and Whitney Canada Nov. 10, 4 pm EV3.309 An Autonomic Future Internet with Essentially - Perfect Throughput and QoS Guarantees Prof. T.H. Szymanski, McMaster University Nov. 7, 1:30 pm Institut national de la recherche scientifique Striving for Excellence and World Class Performance Mr. Khaled Khattab, Benchmarking For Excellence Oct. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 System Engineering for a Low Cost/Light Weight HUMS Dr. Eric Bechhoefer, NRG Systems Sept. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Pursuing and Capturing Information Dr. Kahn, Royal Victoria Hospital Sept. 22 EV1.162 Malware Unmasked Mr. Chad Loeven, Sunbelt Technologies May 12, 4 pm EV3.309 Enforcing Security Policies Prof. Nadia Tawbi, Laval University May 5, 4 pm EV3.309 Clustering on graphs Dr. Pierre Hansen, GERAD and HEC Montral Mar. 31, 4 pm EV3.309 A PD Engineer's Response, from the Far Side of Quality Mr. Stephen P. Jones, Bombardier Aerospace Mar. 24, 4 pm EV3.309 Application of Six Sigma for Services Dr. Rajesh Kumar Tyagi, HEC Montreal Mar. 24, 3 pm EV3.309 Lean Management and Supply Management: Their Role in Green Practices and Performance Dr. Stephan Vachon, HEC Montreal Mar. 17,  4 pm EV3.309 Software Quality Engineering and Software Trustworthiness Dr. Witold Suryn, cole de Technologie Suprieure Mar. 10 (4pm EV3.309 Gaps, Research Challenges, and Solutions Dr. Ali Ghorbani, Dean, Faculty of Computer Science, University of New Brunswick Mar. 3, 3 pm EV3.309 Strategic Design for an Integrated and sustainable Forest Supply Chain Dr. Luc LeBel, Department of Forest and Wood sciences, Laval University Mar. 3, 4 pm EV3.309 Rare-Event Simulation: Challenges, Ideas, and Effective Tools Dr. Pierre L'Ecuyer, Universit de Montral Jan. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Current developments in decision-making techniques for condition based maintenance Dr. Soumaya Yacout, cole Polytechnique de Montral Jan. 13, 4 pm EV3.309 2010 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2010 Location A brief and partial tour of City Logistics Dr. Teodor Gabriel Crainic, UQAM Nov. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 Sustainable Mobility: Car sharing growth in Quebec Mr. Marco Viviani, Communauto Montreal Oct. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 The Use of AVL and APC Technologies in Public Transit Planning and Operations Dr. Ahmed M. El-Geneidy, McGill University Oct. 14, 4 pm EV3.309 Channel Returns Policies for Durable Products Dr. Saibal Ray, McGill University Sept. 30, 4 pm EV3.309 Storage Security in Cloud Computing Dr. Kui Ren, Illinois Institute of Technology Sept. 9, 3:30 pm EV2.309 Network Security Architecture and Management Dr. Franois Cosquer, Security CTO and Technology Strategist, Alcatel Lucent Enterprise, France Jul. 21 & 23, 3 pm EV3.309 Designing-in Quality to Engineered Products through Model-based "Design For Six Sigma (DFSS)" Dr. Chen Li, RIM May 21, 11 am EV1.162 Productivity Improvement in New Product Development Prof. Vince Thomson, McGill University May 6, 4 pm EV1.162 OLSR - Two different security aspects of Mobile Ad Hoc Networks Prof. Jean-Marc Robert, cole de Technologie Suprieur (ETS) April 8, 4 pm EV1.162 A New Multibase Number Representation and its Application to Elliptic and Hyperelliptic Cryptosystems Prof. Ali Miri, Ryerson University March 25, 2:30 pm EV3.309 Can Value Chain Optimization Help the Canadian Forest Products Industry? Prof. Sophie DAmours, CRC Tier I, Laval University March 25, 4 pm EV3.309 100 Side Channels and Nothing Worth Watching  Achieving Security in a White-Box World Mr. Phil Eisen, Cloakware's Core Technology Feb. 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Technology Adoption: An Evolutionary Approach Dr. Jorge Niosi, UQAM Jan. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 A DSL-Based Approach to Developing Pervasive Computing Applications Dr. Charles Consel, INRIA / University of Bordeaux Jan. 19, 2:30 pm EV3.309 Automated supply chain coordination based on OR and Agent technology Dr. Jean-Marc Frayret, cole Polytechnique de Montreal Jan. 14, 4 pm EV3.309 INCOSE 2010 Location INCOSE Webcasting Presentation: The Wymore Construct for Systems Engineering Mr. Mike Dee, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics Nov. 18, 6 pm EV2.301 INCOSE Webcasting Presentation: Problem Solving Mr. Dave Auda, Sr. Reliability/Systems Engineer Sept. 23, 6 pm EV9.221 Joint CIISE/INCOSE Web Seminar: Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) Student Car Projects Webcasting Presentation by Finger Lake INCOSE Chapter March 25, 6 pm EV2.184 Joint INCOSE/CIISE Distinguished Seminar: The Development of International Standards for Very Small Entities: Historical Perspectives, Achievements and Way Forward Dr. Claude Y Laporte, cole de technologie suprieure (ETS) Feb. 18, 6 pm EV2.184 Joint  INCOSE /CIISE Distinguished Seminar: Difference Between Project Management and Systems Engineering Mr. Michel Dion, PMP, Project Manager, Bell Helicopter, Mirabel Presentation slides Dec. 1, 6 pm EV3.309 2009 Seminars 2009 Location CIISE Distinguished Seminar: No Calm after the Storm: A Study of Modern Botnets Dr. Jos M. Fernandez, cole Polytechnique, Montreal, Canada Nov. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 Visualization-based Analysis of Quality Guillaume Langelier, Houari Sahraoui and Pierre Poulin DIRO, Universit de Montral Exploring the Evolution of Software Quality with Animated Visualization for Large-scale Software Systems Guillaume Langelier, Houari Sahraoui and Pierre Poulin, Universit de Montral Nov 12 INCOSE Webcasting:  Warranty Prediction during Product Development Marcos Esterman and Hee-Rak Kang, Industrial and Systems Engineering, Rochester Institute of Technology Nov. 12, 6 pm EV2.184 Why do Software Firms Fail? Capabilities, Competitive Actions and Firm Survival in the Software Industry from 1995 to 2007 Shanling Li, Desautels Faculty of Management, McGill University Jennifer Shang, Katz Graduate School of Business, University of Pittsburgh Sandra A. Slaughter, College of Management, Georgia Institute of Technology Oct. 29 Behavioral Web Services: Design, Implementation and Verification Dr. Jamal Bentahar, CIISE, Concorida University Oct. 1, 4 pm EV3.309 Network Security: Architecture and Management Dr. Franois Cosquer, CTO Security and Technology Strategist for the Alcatel-Lucent Enterprise Business Group These 2 lectures count as 4 signatures for the 1-credit seminar course (INSE 6961; ENGR 7011) for M.Eng. students. July 22 & 24, 3 pm EV3.309 Anonymizing Healthcare Data: A Case Study on the Blood Transfusion Service Mr. Noman Mohammed, Ph.D. candidate, Concorida University Received the best student paper award in ACM SIGKDD'09 June 19, 4 pm EV3.309 USAF System Engineering Assessment Model (AF SEAM) Mr. George Richard Freeman, Technical Director of the Air Force's Center for Systems Engineering, AF Institute of Technology May 21, 6 pm EV3.309 Mobile Blood Donation Registration Service: Security and Privacy Issues Dr. Patrick Hung, University of Ontario Institute of Technology May 14, 4 pm EV3.309 How to Apply Systems Engineering with SysML to a Parking Lot Management System Mr. Mike Lussier, Senior Advisory Tech Rep, IBM Canada Apr. 21, 7 pm EV3.309 Information session about American Society for Quality (ASQ) Mr. Eric Stern, CQA, senior member of the American Society for Quality, publicity co-chair Apr. 6, 4:30 pm EV2.184 Geometric Mesh Denoising Via Multivariate Kernel Diffusion Khaled Tarmissi Mar. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 Teleconferencing with the International Council on Systems Engineering: Finger Lakes Chapter Meeting (Guide to the Use of Units in Technical Documentation) Dr. Karl A. Sweitzer, Senior Staff Systems Engineer, ITT Space Systems Mar. 19, 6 pm EV3.309 Condition based maintenance using proportional hazards model Bairong Wu Mar. 19, 4 pm EV3.309 Scenes modeling and Classification using visual words Mukti Ghimire Mar. 12, 4 pm EV3.309 Attack Graph Compression Long Tao Mar. 6, 2 pm EV3.309 Automatic generation of videos and Cartoons Wentao Fan Mar. 5, 4 pm Quality of Spatial Information for Municipal Infrastructure Management BaoJin Hu Mar. 3, 1 pm EV9.221 Access Control on XML-based RFID Data Rakesh Saini Feb. 19, 4 pm EV3.309 Trust in multiagent systems Babak Khosravifar Feb. 5, 4 pm EV3.309 Simulatable Auditing in Microdata Release Li Deng Jan. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Preserving Privacy for Location-Based Services with Consecutive Queries Yiming Wang Jan. 22,  4 pm EV3.309 2008 Seminars 2008 Location A Novel Approach of Mining Write-Prints for Authorship Attribution in E-mail Forensics Farkhund Iqbal Nov. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Constructing Privacy-Preserving Intrusion Detection Alerts for Correlation and Retrieval Benwen Zhu Nov. 13, 4 pm EV11.119 Forward Analysis for WSTS: Completions Prof. Jean Goubault-Larrecql Oct. 29, 10 am EV3.309 ORCHIDS and Bad Weeds Prof. Jean Goubault-Larrecql Oct. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Privacy Protection for RFID Data Ming Cao Oct. 23, 4 pm EV11.119 Towards Efficient Over-encryption in Outsourced Databases Using Secret Sharing Shuai Liu Oct. 9, 4 pm EV3.309 Scaling Attack Graphs to Large Scale Networks Through Lossless Compression Tao Long Oct. 2, 4 pm EV3.309 A Systematic Framework for Product Design Innovation M. Maziar Gomrokchi Sept. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 A Systematic Framework for Product Design Innovation Shengji Yao Sept. 8, 4 pm EV3.309 Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
108docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > News & events > Seminars Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Seminars November 25, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing November 18, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 12, 2014 Invited Speaker: Social PaL: Finding Path Length Between Two People On a Social Network November 11, 2014 CANCELLED: Invited Speaker: SDN - A Double-Edged Sword to Network Security November 7, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Visual Tools for Interacting with Large Semantic Networks October 27, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Improving End-User Cybersecurity September 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Clinical trials in computer security - Report on a world-first proof-of-concept experiment July 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: Sharing Threat Intelligence to Mitigate Cyber Attacks April 23, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: The Future of Web Authentication March 18, 2014 Invited Speaker Seminar: The Grand Challenge: Securing Cyber Space, a.k.a.: Finding Things That Go Bump in the Net" Show more news 2013 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2013 Location Denial Of Service As a Service-Asymmetrical Warfare At Its Finest Robert Masse, CEO:  Swift Identity Team Dec. 2, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Ibis: An Overlay Mix Network for Microblogging Dr. Ian Goldberg, University of Waterloo Nov. 21, 4:00 pm EV2.260 Piecewise Linear Integer Multicommodity Network Flow Problems Dr. Bernard Gendron, Universit de Montral Nov. 28, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Promoting the digital contents in the European Union Dr. Annie Blandin, Institut Mines-Tlcom/Tlcom Bretagne Oct 28, 4:00 pm EV3.309 New Exact and Heuristic Algorithms for the Multiple-Vehicle Production Routing Problem Dr. Jean-Francois Cordeau, HEC Montral Oct. 17, 4:00 pm EV3.309 How to Install a Backdoor in an International Cryptographic Standard: The "Finessing" of NIST's Dual_EC_DRBG Dr. Aleksander Essex, Western University Sept. 27, 4:00 pm EV3.309 Multicasting in Cognitive Radio Networks Dr. Ahmed E. Kamal, Iowa State University Sept. 25, 10:00 am EV3.309 Privacy-preserving record linkage: Overview, a taxonomy, and scalable techniques Dr. Peter Christen, Australian National University August 5, 1:30 pm EV3.309 Serious Games for Learning and Skills Training: Challenges and Opportunities Dr. Carrie Lui, James Cook University May 2, 4 pm EV3.309 Towards Dependable Software Systems Dr. Mohammad Zulkernine, Queen's University April 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Biological Analogies and Environmental Lead-User Insights as Sources of Ideas for Conceptual Design Dr. L. H. Shu, University of Toronto Feb. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 CIISE Guest Lecture 2013 Location Big Data and Privacy Dr. Noman Mohammed, McGill University Oct. 28, 10:30 am EV3.309 2012 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2012 Location Minimizing Greenhouse Emissions in Vehicle Routing Dr. Gilbert Laporte, HEC Montral Nov. 8, 4 pm EV3.309 Analyzing Commuter Train User Behavior: A Decision Framework for Access Mode and Station Choice Dr. Naveen Eluru, McGill University Oct. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 Sustainable Supply Chain: An Overview and Outlook Dr. Vedat Verter, McGill University Oct. 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Formal and Automatic Enforcement of Security Policies Dr. Mohamed Mejri, Laval University Sept. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Supplier Development with Six sigma Tools Mr. Mutair Kadiri, Honeywell Aerospace Sept. 13, 4 pm EV3.309 Mining Large-scale Streaming and Complex Data Sets Dr. Xiangliang Zhang, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) Aug. 3, 4 pm EV2.260 How to "carbon date" digital information? Dr. Jeremy Clark, Carleton University Mar. 8, 4 pm EV1.162 The use of automatically collected data for public transit planning in Montral Dr. Alfred Chu, Agence Mtropolitaine de Transport (AMT) Feb. 9, 4 pm EV3.309 Features for machinery monitoring by vibration survey Prof. Marc Thomas, cole de technologie suprieure (TS) Jan. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 2011 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2011 Location Congratulations on Graduation - What's Next? Mr. Sukhvinder Jutla, Pratt and Whitney Canada Nov. 10, 4 pm EV3.309 An Autonomic Future Internet with Essentially - Perfect Throughput and QoS Guarantees Prof. T.H. Szymanski, McMaster University Nov. 7, 1:30 pm Institut national de la recherche scientifique Striving for Excellence and World Class Performance Mr. Khaled Khattab, Benchmarking For Excellence Oct. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 System Engineering for a Low Cost/Light Weight HUMS Dr. Eric Bechhoefer, NRG Systems Sept. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Pursuing and Capturing Information Dr. Kahn, Royal Victoria Hospital Sept. 22 EV1.162 Malware Unmasked Mr. Chad Loeven, Sunbelt Technologies May 12, 4 pm EV3.309 Enforcing Security Policies Prof. Nadia Tawbi, Laval University May 5, 4 pm EV3.309 Clustering on graphs Dr. Pierre Hansen, GERAD and HEC Montral Mar. 31, 4 pm EV3.309 A PD Engineer's Response, from the Far Side of Quality Mr. Stephen P. Jones, Bombardier Aerospace Mar. 24, 4 pm EV3.309 Application of Six Sigma for Services Dr. Rajesh Kumar Tyagi, HEC Montreal Mar. 24, 3 pm EV3.309 Lean Management and Supply Management: Their Role in Green Practices and Performance Dr. Stephan Vachon, HEC Montreal Mar. 17,  4 pm EV3.309 Software Quality Engineering and Software Trustworthiness Dr. Witold Suryn, cole de Technologie Suprieure Mar. 10 (4pm EV3.309 Gaps, Research Challenges, and Solutions Dr. Ali Ghorbani, Dean, Faculty of Computer Science, University of New Brunswick Mar. 3, 3 pm EV3.309 Strategic Design for an Integrated and sustainable Forest Supply Chain Dr. Luc LeBel, Department of Forest and Wood sciences, Laval University Mar. 3, 4 pm EV3.309 Rare-Event Simulation: Challenges, Ideas, and Effective Tools Dr. Pierre L'Ecuyer, Universit de Montral Jan. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Current developments in decision-making techniques for condition based maintenance Dr. Soumaya Yacout, cole Polytechnique de Montral Jan. 13, 4 pm EV3.309 2010 CIISE Distinguished Seminar 2010 Location A brief and partial tour of City Logistics Dr. Teodor Gabriel Crainic, UQAM Nov. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 Sustainable Mobility: Car sharing growth in Quebec Mr. Marco Viviani, Communauto Montreal Oct. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 The Use of AVL and APC Technologies in Public Transit Planning and Operations Dr. Ahmed M. El-Geneidy, McGill University Oct. 14, 4 pm EV3.309 Channel Returns Policies for Durable Products Dr. Saibal Ray, McGill University Sept. 30, 4 pm EV3.309 Storage Security in Cloud Computing Dr. Kui Ren, Illinois Institute of Technology Sept. 9, 3:30 pm EV2.309 Network Security Architecture and Management Dr. Franois Cosquer, Security CTO and Technology Strategist, Alcatel Lucent Enterprise, France Jul. 21 & 23, 3 pm EV3.309 Designing-in Quality to Engineered Products through Model-based "Design For Six Sigma (DFSS)" Dr. Chen Li, RIM May 21, 11 am EV1.162 Productivity Improvement in New Product Development Prof. Vince Thomson, McGill University May 6, 4 pm EV1.162 OLSR - Two different security aspects of Mobile Ad Hoc Networks Prof. Jean-Marc Robert, cole de Technologie Suprieur (ETS) April 8, 4 pm EV1.162 A New Multibase Number Representation and its Application to Elliptic and Hyperelliptic Cryptosystems Prof. Ali Miri, Ryerson University March 25, 2:30 pm EV3.309 Can Value Chain Optimization Help the Canadian Forest Products Industry? Prof. Sophie DAmours, CRC Tier I, Laval University March 25, 4 pm EV3.309 100 Side Channels and Nothing Worth Watching  Achieving Security in a White-Box World Mr. Phil Eisen, Cloakware's Core Technology Feb. 11, 4 pm EV3.309 Technology Adoption: An Evolutionary Approach Dr. Jorge Niosi, UQAM Jan. 28, 4 pm EV3.309 A DSL-Based Approach to Developing Pervasive Computing Applications Dr. Charles Consel, INRIA / University of Bordeaux Jan. 19, 2:30 pm EV3.309 Automated supply chain coordination based on OR and Agent technology Dr. Jean-Marc Frayret, cole Polytechnique de Montreal Jan. 14, 4 pm EV3.309 INCOSE 2010 Location INCOSE Webcasting Presentation: The Wymore Construct for Systems Engineering Mr. Mike Dee, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics Nov. 18, 6 pm EV2.301 INCOSE Webcasting Presentation: Problem Solving Mr. Dave Auda, Sr. Reliability/Systems Engineer Sept. 23, 6 pm EV9.221 Joint CIISE/INCOSE Web Seminar: Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) Student Car Projects Webcasting Presentation by Finger Lake INCOSE Chapter March 25, 6 pm EV2.184 Joint INCOSE/CIISE Distinguished Seminar: The Development of International Standards for Very Small Entities: Historical Perspectives, Achievements and Way Forward Dr. Claude Y Laporte, cole de technologie suprieure (ETS) Feb. 18, 6 pm EV2.184 Joint  INCOSE /CIISE Distinguished Seminar: Difference Between Project Management and Systems Engineering Mr. Michel Dion, PMP, Project Manager, Bell Helicopter, Mirabel Presentation slides Dec. 1, 6 pm EV3.309 2009 Seminars 2009 Location CIISE Distinguished Seminar: No Calm after the Storm: A Study of Modern Botnets Dr. Jos M. Fernandez, cole Polytechnique, Montreal, Canada Nov. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 Visualization-based Analysis of Quality Guillaume Langelier, Houari Sahraoui and Pierre Poulin DIRO, Universit de Montral Exploring the Evolution of Software Quality with Animated Visualization for Large-scale Software Systems Guillaume Langelier, Houari Sahraoui and Pierre Poulin, Universit de Montral Nov 12 INCOSE Webcasting:  Warranty Prediction during Product Development Marcos Esterman and Hee-Rak Kang, Industrial and Systems Engineering, Rochester Institute of Technology Nov. 12, 6 pm EV2.184 Why do Software Firms Fail? Capabilities, Competitive Actions and Firm Survival in the Software Industry from 1995 to 2007 Shanling Li, Desautels Faculty of Management, McGill University Jennifer Shang, Katz Graduate School of Business, University of Pittsburgh Sandra A. Slaughter, College of Management, Georgia Institute of Technology Oct. 29 Behavioral Web Services: Design, Implementation and Verification Dr. Jamal Bentahar, CIISE, Concorida University Oct. 1, 4 pm EV3.309 Network Security: Architecture and Management Dr. Franois Cosquer, CTO Security and Technology Strategist for the Alcatel-Lucent Enterprise Business Group These 2 lectures count as 4 signatures for the 1-credit seminar course (INSE 6961; ENGR 7011) for M.Eng. students. July 22 & 24, 3 pm EV3.309 Anonymizing Healthcare Data: A Case Study on the Blood Transfusion Service Mr. Noman Mohammed, Ph.D. candidate, Concorida University Received the best student paper award in ACM SIGKDD'09 June 19, 4 pm EV3.309 USAF System Engineering Assessment Model (AF SEAM) Mr. George Richard Freeman, Technical Director of the Air Force's Center for Systems Engineering, AF Institute of Technology May 21, 6 pm EV3.309 Mobile Blood Donation Registration Service: Security and Privacy Issues Dr. Patrick Hung, University of Ontario Institute of Technology May 14, 4 pm EV3.309 How to Apply Systems Engineering with SysML to a Parking Lot Management System Mr. Mike Lussier, Senior Advisory Tech Rep, IBM Canada Apr. 21, 7 pm EV3.309 Information session about American Society for Quality (ASQ) Mr. Eric Stern, CQA, senior member of the American Society for Quality, publicity co-chair Apr. 6, 4:30 pm EV2.184 Geometric Mesh Denoising Via Multivariate Kernel Diffusion Khaled Tarmissi Mar. 26, 4 pm EV3.309 Teleconferencing with the International Council on Systems Engineering: Finger Lakes Chapter Meeting (Guide to the Use of Units in Technical Documentation) Dr. Karl A. Sweitzer, Senior Staff Systems Engineer, ITT Space Systems Mar. 19, 6 pm EV3.309 Condition based maintenance using proportional hazards model Bairong Wu Mar. 19, 4 pm EV3.309 Scenes modeling and Classification using visual words Mukti Ghimire Mar. 12, 4 pm EV3.309 Attack Graph Compression Long Tao Mar. 6, 2 pm EV3.309 Automatic generation of videos and Cartoons Wentao Fan Mar. 5, 4 pm Quality of Spatial Information for Municipal Infrastructure Management BaoJin Hu Mar. 3, 1 pm EV9.221 Access Control on XML-based RFID Data Rakesh Saini Feb. 19, 4 pm EV3.309 Trust in multiagent systems Babak Khosravifar Feb. 5, 4 pm EV3.309 Simulatable Auditing in Microdata Release Li Deng Jan. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Preserving Privacy for Location-Based Services with Consecutive Queries Yiming Wang Jan. 22,  4 pm EV3.309 2008 Seminars 2008 Location A Novel Approach of Mining Write-Prints for Authorship Attribution in E-mail Forensics Farkhund Iqbal Nov. 27, 4 pm EV3.309 Constructing Privacy-Preserving Intrusion Detection Alerts for Correlation and Retrieval Benwen Zhu Nov. 13, 4 pm EV11.119 Forward Analysis for WSTS: Completions Prof. Jean Goubault-Larrecql Oct. 29, 10 am EV3.309 ORCHIDS and Bad Weeds Prof. Jean Goubault-Larrecql Oct. 29, 4 pm EV3.309 Privacy Protection for RFID Data Ming Cao Oct. 23, 4 pm EV11.119 Towards Efficient Over-encryption in Outsourced Databases Using Secret Sharing Shuai Liu Oct. 9, 4 pm EV3.309 Scaling Attack Graphs to Large Scale Networks Through Lossless Compression Tao Long Oct. 2, 4 pm EV3.309 A Systematic Framework for Product Design Innovation M. Maziar Gomrokchi Sept. 25, 4 pm EV3.309 A Systematic Framework for Product Design Innovation Shengji Yao Sept. 8, 4 pm EV3.309 Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
109docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > News & events > Notices Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Notices November 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry October 31, 2014 CIISE will host the 7th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security FPS2014 September 11, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - October 10, 2014: Geo-visual Analytics of Canada-U.S. Transborder Traffic Data September 2, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense - September 12, 2014: Impact of Funding on Scientific Output and Collaboration April 21, 2014 CIISE Prof on Heartbleed & Bitcoin February 4, 2014 CIISE research on Bitcoin February 4, 2014 ISE PhD Student Awarded NSERC CGS October 29, 2013 Three CIISE students received prestigious scholarships October 24, 2013 CIISE Student's Work Appeared on Slashdot October 24, 2013 CIISE-supervised Ph.D. received NSERC Postdoctoral Fellowship October 23, 2013 CIISE Ph.D. student on CTV October 22, 2013 CIISE students and supervisor awarded the Best Paper Award at IEEE NCA13 October 14, 2013 CIISE student and supervisor awarded the Best Paper Award at ARES 2013 June 7, 2013 Appointment of Rachida Dssouli as director of CIISE October 23, 2012 BRAVO to our CIISE staff at Pumpkin Competition Show more news Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
110docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Student life Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student life Find out what's happening at CIISE and what the institute has to offer to graduate students.  Get involved  with your community. Current students Student & Professional Associations Campus services at Concordia Course registration, sequences, descriptions & advising Financial support Graduate Program Enquiries Drop-in Visit Times Meet with CIISE Graduate Program Coordinators Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays: 9:00 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. 2:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. CIISE Notices November 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry October 31, 2014 CIISE will host the 7th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security FPS’2014 Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS Alumni Chapter Group Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
111docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Current students Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Current students Key resources Concordia Class Schedule ENCS Class Schedule All ENCS labs schedules Door codes Course sequences Student Academic Services Student requests, readmission forms, transfer requests and more can all be found at SAS. Visit SAS now Forms Deadlines Graduate Program Requirements Expectations of Originality form : Form to be attached to assignments, projects, and reports for grading. Course registration form Drop and add form CIISE Seminar attendance form ISS M.A.Sc. checklist QSE M.A.Sc. checklist Sample Study Plan - ISS Sample Study Plan - QSE For important deadlines, please visit: Graduate Academic Dates Graduate Application Deadlines Convocation Critical stages and milestones to be achieved during your doctoral study in Information and Systems Engineering Requirements for the Master's program in Information Systems Security Quality Systems Engineering Co-op Frequently asked questions More | RSS Upcoming Defences November 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry September 11, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - October 10, 2014: Geo-visual Analytics of Canada-U.S. Transborder Traffic Data September 2, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense - September 12, 2014: Impact of Funding on Scientific Output and Collaboration Useful links MyConcordia Portal Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science Undergraduate Calendar Graduate Calendar Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
112docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > About the Institute > Job opportunities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Job opportunities CIISE faculty and teaching positions Canada Research Chair Tier 1 position in the area of Cyber Security Assistant or Associate Professor in the area of Information Systems Security or Quality Systems Engineering ENCS faculty and teaching positions Strategic Hire - Sustainable Infrastructure for Communities in Cold Climates Mechanical & Industrial Engineering - Assistant or Associate Professor Canada Research Chair: CIISE - Cyber Security Strategic Hire - Computer Games and Virtual Worlds CIISE - Assistant Professor Assistant Professor, Software Engineering Strategic Hire - Interaction Design, Theory and Practice University Staff Opportunities FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & COMPUTER SCIENCEdocContentEnd
113docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > About the Institute > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time Faculty Part-time Faculty Affiliate Faculty Full-time Faculty Chadi Assi Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering Tier II Concordia Research Chair 514-848-2424, ext. 5799 S-EV 7635 chadi.assi@concordia.ca Anjali Awasthi Associate Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5622 S-EV 7636 anjali.awasthi@concordia.ca Ayda Basyouni Lecturer, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5621 S-EV 7648 abasyoun@ciise.concordia.ca Abdessamad Ben Hamza Associate Professor & Associate Director, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5383 S-EV 7631 hamza@ciise.concordia.ca Jamal Bentahar Associate Professor & Graduate Program Director, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5382 S-EV 7630 bentahar@ciise.concordia.ca Nizar Bouguila Associate Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5663 S-EV 7632 nizar.bouguila@concordia.ca Jeremy Clark Assistant Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5381 S-EV 6223 j.clark@concordia.ca Mourad Debbabi Professor & Tier I Concordia Research Chair, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3166 S-EV 14185 mourad.debbabi@concordia.ca Rachida Dssouli Professor & Director, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 4162 S-EV 6225 rachida.dssouli@concordia.ca Roch Glitho 514-848-2424, ext. 5846 S-EV 6227 roch.glitho@concordia.ca Amin Hammad Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5800 S-EV 7634 amin.hammad@concordia.ca Mohammad Mannan Assistant Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 8972 S-EV 6221 m.mannan@concordia.ca Andrea Schiffauerova Assistant Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 3307 S-EV 7628 andrea.schiffauerova@concordia.ca Chun Wang Associate Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5628 S-EV 7629 chun.wang@concordia.ca Lingyu Wang Associate Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5662 S-EV 7637 lingyu.wang@concordia.ca Amr Youssef Professor & Graduate Program Director, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5441 S-EV 7638 amr.youssef@concordia.ca Yong Zeng Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering 514-848-2424, ext. 5801 S-EV 7633 yong.zeng@concordia.ca Part-time Faculty Patrick Boismenu Gordon Leonard Affiliate Faculty Name/Title E-mail/Phone Research interests Prabir Bhattacharya Affiliate Professor prabir@ciise.concordia.ca Computer vision Image processing Biometrics Multimedia secure communications Digital watermarking Intelligent control Soft computing Sensor fusion Franois Cosquer Affiliate Associate Professor cosquer@ciise.concordia.ca Stphane Cot Affiliate Associate Professor stephane.cote@bentley.com Nol Crespi Benjamin Fung Affiliate Associate Professor fung@ciise.concordia.ca Data mining & databases Text mining Data security & privacy Authorship analysis Services computing Malware analysis Maurice Khabbaz Ruixuan Li Affiliate Professor rxli@hust.edu.cn 86-27-8754-4285+ System security Distributed systems Clound computing Social network Information retrieval Data mining Simon Li Affiliate Associate Professor lisimon@ciise.concordia.ca Hadi Otrok Martin Maier Affiliate Associate Professor martin.maier@emt.inrs.ca 514-875-1266#3043 Rseaux optiques du futur Makan Pourzandi Affiliate Associate Professor pourzand@ciise.concordia.ca Security High availability Distributed systems Cluster security Cluster computing Parallel computing Khaled Shaban Samir Sebbah Affiliate Assistant Professor samir.sebbah@forces.gc.ca M. Adel Serhani Affiliate Assistant Professor serhanim@uaeu.ac.ae QoS management in SOA Web Services and Mobile Web Services Cloud Computing Mobile Sensing for E-health Social Network Mobile and Ad Hoc Networks Zhigang Tian Affiliate Associate Professor tian@ciise.concordia.ca Prognostics Condition based maintenance Reliability Renewable energy systems Condition monitoring Signal processing Finite element modeling Optimization Andrew Vallerand Affiliate Associate Professor andrew.vallerand@drdc-rddc.gc.ca Fayi Zhou Affiliate Associate Professor fayi.zhou@edmonton.ca Media Relations Concordia's Experts guide for media Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
114docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > About the Institute > Staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Staff Dr. Rachida Dssouli Director Dr. A. Ben Hamza Associate Director Dr. Amr Youssef Graduate Program Director Dr. Jamal Bentahar Graduate Program Director Rima Baroudi, Office Assistant Title Office Assistant Room: EV7.640 Phone: (+1) 514-848-2424 ext: 5847 Fax: (+1) 514-848-3171 E-mail: rima@ciise.concordia.ca Nina Dunn, Department Administrator Title Department Administrator Room: EV7.643 Phone: (+1) 514-848-2424 ext: 3180 Fax: (+1) 514-848-3171 E-mail: departmental-administrator@ciise.concordia.ca Duties: Office management Departmental policies and procedures Budget Recruitment Card access Coordination of events Promotional materials Lilia Pernatozzi, Assistant to the Director Title Assistant to the Director Room: EV7.644 Phone: (+1) 514-848-2424 ext: 8529 Fax: (+1) 514-848-3171 E-mail: lilia@ciise.concordia.ca Silvie Pasquarelli, Graduate Program Coordinator Title Graduate Program Coordinator Room: EV7.641 Phone: (+1) 514-848-2424 ext: 5367 Fax: (+1) 514-848-3171 E-mail: graduate@ciise.concordia.ca Duties: Administrative support for graduate programs Graduate promotional materials Mireille Wahba, Graduate Program Coordinator Title Graduate Program Coordinator Room: EV7.639 Phone: (+1) 514-848-2424 ext: 2418 Fax: (+1) 514-848-3171 E-mail: graduate@ciise.concordia.ca Duties: Administrative support for graduate programs Graduate promotional materials CIISE Location Graduate Program Enquiries Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
115docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering Posted on November 18, 2014 | Source:  Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Dr. Vincent Morency Senior Manager, Metropolitan Transportation Agency (AMT) Thursday, November 20, 4:00 p.m. Room EV003.309 Abstract This talk will address the subject of planning and developing technology for public transit. I will begin with an introduction on transit ITS followed by its deployment status in Canada. A regional ITS architecture for Greater Montreal will be provided followed by systems engineering perspective on a major infrastructure project with application for the Pie-IX BRT. Biography Vincent obtained his degree in Electrical Engineering from McGill University in 1998 and his Masters degree in Management Science from the University of British Columbia in 2000. He started his career as a business process optimization specialist and evolved to project management positions in the fields of transportation, electronics manufacturing, software development, and new product development at Nortel Networks, Canadian National Railways, and HME/ClearCom. Vincent joined AMT in 2011 as a Senior Manager in the Planning & Innovation group. AMT is a Qubec provincial government agency with a metropolitan vocation to plan, coordinate, integrate and promote public transport services in close cooperation with its regional partners. He has both responsibility for the management of transit infrastructure development projects and the planning and development of Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) initiatives. His team promotes ITS internally and regionally, as well as manages the early phases of systems engineering from feasibility studies to detailed requirements and high-level design. Contact For additional information, please contact: Dr. Mohammad Mannan 514-848-2424 ext. 8972 mmannan@ciise.concordia.ca Related Links See full list of CIISE seminars Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
116docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering Posted on November 25, 2014 | Source:  Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Dr. Baochun Li Professor, University of Toronto Friday, November 28, 3:30 p.m. Room EV002.184 Abstract It is customary in today's cloud computing and middlebox networking environments to process packets with vastly different amounts of resources of different types (e.g., CPU and network bandwidth). Fair scheduling with multiple resources allows each flow to receive a fair share of resources based on the principle of dominant resource fairness. Existing schemes for multi-resource fair scheduling, however, are expensive to implement at high speeds. Specifically, the time complexity to schedule a packet is O(log n), where n is the number of backlogged flows. In this talk, we present our recent work, published in ICNP 2013, on a new multi-resource fair scheduling scheme that requires only O(1) work to schedule a packet and is simple enough to implement in practice. The work represents the first multi-resource fair scheduling algorithm that is provably fair and highly efficient. Biography Baochun Li received his B.Engr. degree from the Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, China, in 1995 and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, in 1997 and 2000. Since 2000, he has been with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Toronto, where he is currently a Professor. He holds the Bell Canada Endowed Chair in Computer Engineering since August 2005. His research interests include large-scale distributed systems, cloud computing, peer-to-peer networks, applications of network coding, and wireless networks. Dr. Li has co-authored more than 280 research papers, with a total of more than 12000 citations, an H-index of 57 and an i10-index of 181 according to Google Scholar Citations. Dr. Li was the recipient of the IEEE Communications Society Leonard G. Abraham Award in the Field of Communications Systems in 2000. In 2009, he was a recipient of the Multimedia Communications Best Paper Award from the IEEE Communications Society, and a recipient of the University of Toronto McLean Award. He is a member of ACM and a Fellow of IEEE. Contact For additional information, please contact: Dr. Mohammad Mannan 514-848-2424 ext. 8972 mmannan@ciise.concordia.ca Related Links See full list of CIISE seminars Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
117docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn CIISE will host the 7th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security FPS2014 Nov 3-5, 2014 Posted on October 31, 2014 | Source:  Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) CIISE will host the 7th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security FPS2014, November 3-5, 2014. The conference will be held in Concordia's   EV building. The aim of this event is to discuss and exchange theoretical and practical ideas that address security issues in inter-connected systems. It aims to provide scientific presentations as well as to establish links, promote scientific collaboration, joint research programs, and student exchanges between institutions involved in this important and fast moving research field. For more information, visit the FPS'2014 site: conferences.telecom-bretagne.eu/fps/2014/ Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
118docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry A Closer look at the Procurement Process using System Dynamics Posted on November 14, 2014 Rema Sawan Thursday, November 27, 2014 at 10:00 Room EV001.162 You are invited to attend the following M.A.Sc. (Information Systems Security) thesis examination. Examining Committee Dr. J. Clark, Chair Dr. A. Schiffauerova, Supervisor Dr. A. Hammad, CIISE Examiner Dr. M. Kazemi-Zanjani, External Examiner (MIE) Abstract The aim of this research is to develop the Cost of Quality (COQ) model for the procurement process of the construction industry and establish a general course of action for minimizing quality costs. A case study in a large Canadian construction company was conducted and the use of the Prevention-Appraisal-Failure (PAF) approach for the COQ model of the procurement process was explored. In contrast to the conventional COQ analysis we take into account not only the internal quality costs within the company, but also the costs of its suppliers. Several different policies were designed and their effects on quality costs investigated through System Dynamics (SD) simulation. The findings suggest that Prevention costs should be increased to minimize failures. It was also found that Appraisal cost is quite high in the procurement process and should be reduced in order to minimize overall COQ. However, this strategy could increase failure occurrences thereby damaging a companys reputation. The possible reductions of Appraisal cost in the construction companies should thus be carefully considered. Graduate Program Coordinators For more information, contact  Silvie Pasquarelli  or  Mireille Wahba . Related Links See full list of defences Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
119docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Master Thesis Defense - October 10, 2014: Geo-visual Analytics of Canada-U.S. Transborder Traffic Data Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering Posted on September 11, 2014 | Source:  Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) Ali Nejaty Jahromi Friday, October 10, 2014 at 13:00 Room EV003.309 You are invited to attend the following M.A.Sc. (Quality Systems Engineering) thesis examination. Examining Committee Dr. R. Glitho, Chair Dr. A. Hammad, Supervisor Dr. C. Wang, CIISE Examiner Dr. C. Alecsandru, External Examiner (BCEE) Abstract This research aims to investigate new geo-visual analytics methods and techniques for visually analyzing the large amount of historical and near real time geospatial and temporal traffic data at the border crossings between Canada and the U.S. Historical traffic-related time-series data are available from different agencies in both countries for at least the last four decades for different modes of transportation and different purposes. Supplementary historical and near real-time data about delays, weather conditions, and different types of alerts and conditions at the ports of entry can be used to analyze the decision processes behind changes in traffic patterns. The data are gathered, processed, and linked to a web-based Geographic Information System (GIS) that can be accessed by authorized users over the Internet using an intuitive graphical user interface (GUI) to support different types of queries. The resulting database and information system can be beneficial for understanding the impact of the different factors affecting delays at the ports of entry and the impacts of these delays on the decision-making of travelers, planners, and supply chain operators. Graduate Program Coordinators For more information, contact  Silvie Pasquarelli  or  Mireille Wahba . Related Links See full list of defences Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
120docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs CIISE offers a  doctoral program  in information and systems engineering and two master's programs in  information systems security  and  quality systems engineering    the first programs of their kind in Canada. Information & Systems Engineering (ISE) The academic aim of this Ph.D. program is to prepare students for leadership roles in the area of Information and Systems Engineering (ISE) with the knowledge and skills to advance the discipline from the academic, research and practical standpoints. The Ph.D. program will prepare the students to address the current and future challenges in information and systems engineering such as designing, modeling, analyzing and managing complex systems, exploiting systems of systems, managing systems complexity, studying systems' attributes and understanding human factors in the system. PhD in Information & Systems Engineering Information Systems Security Security of information systems raises numerous open legal and ethical issues that are currently being addressed at both the academic and industrial levels.  Many of these issues raise some clear conflicts between global versus national interests as well as government versus public interests. You will be introduced to issues such as  IT security ethics , privacy, digital copyright,  licensing IT security products , import and export control regulations, computer fraud and abuse,  computer crime control , national and international criminal codes, incident handling,  infrastructure protection and espionage laws , privacy laws, business records, digital forensics. MASc in Information Systems Security MEng in Information Systems Security Quality Systems Engineering Get prepared with the skills, knowledge, expertise in cutting-edge technologies and best practices necessary for designing, modelling, analyzing, implementing and managing  quality systems . Our programs put the emphasis on helping each individual acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to maximize his or her potential as a researcher in quality systems,  lean engineering  and  supply chain management . Students will engage in applied research and academic course of study examining existing theory and ways in which these influence the quality of systems, services, products and processes. MASc in Quality Systems Engineering MEng in Quality Systems Engineering Service Engineering & Network Management Obtain a complete set of knowledge and expertise that is necessary to work in the area of telecommunication and enables students to acquire knowledge in the area of network management. Learn more about this Graduate Certificate Degrees Ph.D program Information & Systems Engineering Master's programs Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Graduate certificate program Service Engineering &  Network Management Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
121docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Research > Funding & grants Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Funding & grants CIISE has received over 3.4 million  research  funding to conduct a large variety of interdisciplinary research projects. Grant Agencies Discovery grant from Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) Collaborative R&D grant from Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) Equipment grant from Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) "Jeune Chercheurs" grant from Fonds Qubcois de la Recherche sur la Nature et les Technologies (FQRNT) Team grant from Fonds Qubcois de la Recherche sur la Nature et les Technologies (FQRNT) Government Information and Knowledge Management Section, Defence Research and Development Canada, Valcartier Decision Support Systems Section, Defence Research and Development Canada, Valcartier Synthetic Environments Section, Defence Research and Development Canada, Ottawa Industry Alcatel, Ottawa, Canada Ericsson Canada Bell University Laboratories, Montreal, Canada Fujitsu, Montreal, Canada Panasonic Information and Network Technologies Laboratory, Princeton, New Jersey, USA Synergetic Research and Innovation in Aerospace / Le Consortium de recherche et d'innovation en arospatiale au Qubec (CRIAQ) , Montreal, Quebec Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
122docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Research > Researchers Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Researchers Chadi Assi, Ph.D. Wireless networks Information security Anjali Awasthi, Ph.D. City Logistics Intelligent Transportation Systems Quality assurance in supply chain management IT & Decision making Sustainable Supply Chain Management Abdessamad Ben Hamza, Ph.D. Image Processing Computer Graphics Multimedia Security Medical Imaging Statistical Quality Control Jamal Bentahar, Ph.D. Intelligent agents and multi-agent systems Agent-based software engineering Multi-agent interaction, dialogue and argumentation Formal methods Validation and automatic verification Non-classical logics Temporal and spatial reasoning Decision theory Artificial intelligence and knowledge representation Security in multi-agent systems Semantic Web and semantic grid computing Service computing Nizar Bouguila, Ph.D. Computer vision and pattern recognition Machine learning and data mining Image and signal processing Statistical process control 3D graphics and games Jeremy Clark, Ph.D. Anonymous Communication Bitcoin Cryptography & Data Security Genomic Privacy Multiparty Computation SSL/TLS and HTTPS Voting System Security Mourad Debbabi, Ph.D. Cyber Forensics Network Security Software Security Malware Analysis Program Analysis Software Engineering Systems Engineering Formal Semantics and Methods Verification and Validation Languages Design and Analysis Rachida Dssouli, Ph.D. Communication software engineering Quality assurance for software Service engineering Conformance testing based on FSM, EFSM and timed automata Requirement engineering based on scenarios Multimedia applications and QoS Roch Glitho, Ph.D. Architectures for end-user services in conventional networks (e.g. 3G/4G networks) Architectures for end-user services in challenged networks (e.g. mobile ad hoc networks, wireless sensor networks) Distributed systems (e.g. web services) Non-conventional networking (e.g. ambient networking, mobile ad hoc networking, wireless sensor networking) Networking technologies for emerging economies Amin Hammad, Ph.D. Telegeoinformatics Location-based computing Sustainable infrastructure lifecycle management Virtual reality urban simulation Geographic information system Mohammad Mannan, Ph.D. Authentication and systems security Privacy Social networking Trusted computing OS/Hypervisor security Phishing Android/Mobile security Andrea Schiffauerova, Ph.D. Innovation systems Management of science and technology Scientometrics Innovation networks Analysis of complex networks Open innovation Organizational innovation process Cost of quality Chun Wang, Ph.D. e-supply chain Algorithmic mechanism design, game theory Multi-agent systems Lingyu Wang, Ph.D. Security and Privacy Data privacy Vulnerability analysis Intrusion detection Security metrics Amr Youssef, Ph.D. Cryptography and network security Sequence design for FH-CDMA Software protection Information hiding Hardware  implementation of cryptographic algorithms Yong Zeng, Ph.D. Innovative and creative design Theory and methodology Cognitive experiments Computational technologies Related Links Research Labs Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
123docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News More latest news 11 new University Research Chairs embody Concordias numerous strengths October 15, 2014 Heartbleed and other cyber threats May 14, 2014 Cybercrime fighters September 18, 2013 Quality Systems Engineering for a quality career March 13, 2013 Filtering spam November 20, 2012 Sharing the knowledge on car sharing September 11, 2012 ENCS Notices November 24, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 21, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 26, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing October 31, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak November 26, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 21, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry More notices More | RSS Upcoming Defences November 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry September 11, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - October 10, 2014: Geo-visual Analytics of Canada-U.S. Transborder Traffic Data More | RSS CIISE Seminars November 25, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing November 18, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit More | RSS CIISE Notices November 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry October 31, 2014 CIISE will host the 7th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security FPS’2014 Events More events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
124docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Concordia Institute for Information  Systems Engineering (CIISE) Home About the Institute Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Information & Systems Engineering (PhD) Information Systems Security (MASc) Information Systems Security (MEng) Quality Systems Engineering (MASc) Quality Systems Engineering (MEng) Service Engineering & Network Management (Grad. Cert.) 3D Graphics & Game Development (Grad. Cert.) Research Researchers Funding & grants Facilities & services Student life Student & Professional Associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering (CIISE) > Student life > Student & Professional Associations Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student & Professional Associations Concordia has various student associations whose membership consists of the graduate students of the Concordia University. These associations actively promote and represent graduate student interests to the university administration. Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association (ECSGA) All students of Concordia University registered as full-time or part-time Graduate students in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science shall be members of the ECSGA.  More about ECSGA Graduate Students Association (GSA) Representing the needs of all graduate students and ensuring your voice is present and effective within the University are of primary importance.  More about GSA Concordia International Students Association (CISA) CISA is dedicated to all students whether national or international. Their goal is to bring students together in a warm and friendly environment to learn, to share, and to laugh.  More about CISA Other Student Associations The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter  (CSCE:CSC) Women In Engineering (WIE) Concordia University Engineering and Computer Science Association  (ECA) Montreal-Quebec ITE Student Chapter Concordia Student Union Professional Associations Canadian Society for Civil Engineering  (CSCE) Association for the Advancement of Cost Engineering  (AACE) American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers  (ASHRAE) Ordre des ingnieurs du Quebec  (OIQ) The Canadian Council of Professional Engineers  (CCPE) Canadian Institute of Transportation Engineers  (CITE) Alumni Network - ENCS As a graduate of the Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science, you are a valued member of a network of over 15,000 alumni throughout the world. Staying connected to our alma mater brings many rewards, not least of which is the networking opportunity at our many events. You'd be surprised at the pace of positive developments at Concordia University, and your alumni chapter will keep you abreast of all the latest news.  Learn more Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About Programs Research Facilities & Services Student life News & Events Contact us Quick links Current students Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 7.640 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
125docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Contact Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact Get in touch 514-848-2424, ext. 3000 reception@cse.concordia.ca Find a CSSE faculty member Find a CSSE staff member Location 1515 St. Catherine St. W. Room  EV 3.139 Mailing address Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West, EV03.139 Montral, Qubec, Canada, H3G 1M8 Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
126docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Forum en Sant et Scurit / Health and Safety Exhibition November 26, 2014, 10:00 AM – 3:00 PM English description is found below. Le Service Environnement, Sant et Scurit (ESS), en collaboration avec Fisher Scientific, vous convie  un forum en Sant & Scurit. Plusieurs fournisseurs de produits et services prsenteront leurs plus rcents quipements de scurit et rpondront  toutes questions touchant les meilleures pratiques de travail scuritaires dans les laboratoires, les studios et les ateliers. Trois confrences en franais seront offertes par des experts en la matire: Protection des Mains (11 h), Travail en Espaces Clos & Travail en Hauteur (13 h) et Protection Respiratoire (14 h). Cette exposition est gratuite et offerte  tous les membres de la communaut universitaire. Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S), in collaboration with Fisher Scientific, is hosting a Health & Safety Exhibition. Several suppliers will display their latest safety equipment and answer any questions concerning best safe work practices in laboratories, studios, and workshops. Experts will offer conferences  in French , namely on Hand Protection (11 a.m.), Confined Spaces and Fall Protection (1 p.m) and Respiratory Protection (2 p.m.). This exposition is free and open to all members of the university community. Where Room Atrium, Engineering and Visual Arts Complex  (1515 St. Catherine W.), Sir George William Campus Cost This event is free Organizer Daniel Pag Organization Environmental Health and Safety Website Environmental Health and Safety website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 4408 Category Workshops & seminars Export event CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
127docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Get the flu shot Book your appointment today to protect yourself and others from the flu November 26, 2014, 9:00 AM – 3:30 PM The health professionals at Concordia University Health Services recommend that everyone get the flu shot, every year. Getting the flu shot will reduce your chance of getting the flu or spreading it to others. If you do catch the flu, being vaccinated can make the illness less severe. Flu vaccine clinics start November 18. Come by  Health Services  or drop by the weekly  Healthy YOU at CU information tables  to discuss your questions and concerns with a nurse or health promotion specialist. Find reliable, evidence-based answers to common vaccine concerns from  WebMD Check out the  Health Services flu clinic schedule ! Where Room AD-307, Administration Building  (7141 Sherbrooke W.), Loyola Campus Cost Free to those who meet the criteria Organization Health Services Website Health Services website Contact 514-848-2424 ext. 5276 Category Other events Export event Other Dates November 18, 2014 November 19, 2014 November 21, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 27, 2014 CALENDAR SUBMIT AN EVENT Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
128docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Our 50+ faculty members, 600 graduate students and 1000+ undergraduate students comprise a thriving research community. Meet our faculty members See upcoming theses defences Explore research areas Research groups From Bioinformatics to Software Maintenance Combined, our faculty members receive over a million dollars in research grants from federal, provincial and industrial sources. Our students are highly involved in our thirteen research groups. See research groups Research Centre Centre for Pattern Recognition & Machine Intelligence CENPARMI is an international research centre that has developed techniques to recognize characters, time-varying signals, satellite pictures, objects, fingerprints, and weather patterns, military applications and much more. Learn more Industry sponsors Learn about our partners in industry Read more Funding & collaboration Learn about grants & funding See our visiting researchers Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
129docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Programs > Graduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Graduate programs Our department is one of the pioneers in Computer Science education and the largest in the nation. We train our students with care. PhD in Computer Science We have a dynamic doctoral program which trains students in  fundamentals and theory  or in  practical applications . Doctoral studies can be pursued in  several areas . A thesis based on this work must be submitted and defended in an oral examination. Learn more Master's degrees In our Department, we offer two types of Master's degrees in Computer Science and two in Software Engineering. One is based on  course work  preparing the students for broader knowledge and the other is  Thesis-based  which trains students more in depth on a chosen thesis topic. Thesis-based programs Master in Computer Science (MCompSc) Designed to provide students with an opportunity to strengthen their knowledge in a specific area of computer science in the broad sense, and to provide a significant introduction to research. This program will appeal primarily to students interested in full-time study. Learn more Master in Applied Science, Software Engineering (MASc) Designed to provide students with an opportunity to further their knowledge in a specific area of software engineering and to provide a significant introduction to research in software engineering. This program will appeal primarily to students interested in full-time study. Learn more Coursework-based programs Master of Engineering, Software Engineering (MEng) Provides a sound education in the theory and practice of software engineering, enabling graduates to work confidently with software engineering applications in industry and commerce. Also open to to candidates employed in industry or commerce who wish to study on a part-time basis. Learn more Master in Applied Computer Science (MApCompSc) Provides a sound education in the theory and applications of computing so that one can orient towards computer applications in industry and commerce. Open to candidates employed in industry or commerce who wish to study on a part-time basis. Program consists of only course work. Learn more Graduate diploma in Computer Science (GrDip) The Department of Computer Science offers a Diploma program for qualified university graduates from diverse backgrounds who wish to obtain expertise in Computer Science fundamentals. This one year Post Graduate Diploma program prepares students from other disciplines for graduate level work or for employment. Learn more Explore our research The department makes extensive use of the university's central computing systems and graduate students have access to a wide range of computing facilities and laboratories for: Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics Computer Graphics Computer Networks Databases and Information Systems Distributed Systems Human Computer Interfaces Large Scale Optimization Systems Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence Programming Languages Software Engineering Visualization Find out more about the department'  research groups and facilities . Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
130docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Programs > Undergraduate programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Undergraduate programs Our department offers two undergraduate degrees. Both programs are available in the  Co-op format ; the Computer Science program may also lead to an  Honours program . Bachelor of Engineering in Software Engineering (BEng) The BEng program consists of core courses in engineering, program courses attached to one of three available options and technical electives. Learn more Bachelor of Computer Science (BCompSci) <p">The BCompSci program consists of core courses in computer science, program courses attached to one of nine available options, and technical electives.docContentEnd
131docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > About the department Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the department Based in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, our department is one of the pioneers in Computer Science education and the largest in the nation. We train our students with care and provide financial support for Thesis students. Read our Chair's Message Teaching We offer  degree programs  in Computer Science as well as in Software Engineering. In addition to our many  undergraduate offerings , we offer two different  Masters Degree  programs are available. One is based on thesis work and the other entirely on course work. We have a dynamic  doctoral program  and a  Graduate Diploma program  geared for retraining graduates from other disciplines into computer science. We serve both full time and part-time student communities, and offer suitable financial assistance in the form of bursaries and sholarships. We are very proud of the unique orientation of our academic programs  practical and flexible with lasting foundational knowledge, matching well with the needs of todays information technology driven society. We have over 1000 undergraduate students and over 600 graduate students studying in our department. Research We have  37 full-time faculty members ,  several emeritus professors , as well as  affiliate professors  and  part-time faculty . The department is supported by a dedicated administrative staff team. Combined, our faculty members receive over a million dollars in research grants from federal, provincial and industrial sources.   Learn about our research . Facilities The computing facilities are broadly classified into teaching and research-oriented. The  teaching labs  are used by both undergraduate and graduate students for their course work. In addition, several  research groups and labs performing innovative and cutting-edge research  are housed in the new Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts Integrated Complex. Meet our faculty members Meet our staff Contact Us Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
132docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > News & events > Notices Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Notices November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 24, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak October 29, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Reem Alnanih October 14, 2014 Master Thesis Defense: Nitin Prajapati October 1, 2014 Faculty Accolades - October September 16, 2014 Morgan Stanley Information Session @ Concordia University September 16, 2014 Morgan Stanley Presents: An interactive lecture by Bjarne Stroustrup on the essence of C++ programming language August 12, 2014 Cryptography: My Own Experience August 12, 2014 Algorithm Design for Map-Reduce July 16, 2014 Seminar:  Optimizing Energy and Bandwith in Mobile Streaming Systems July 14, 2014 Seminar:  Spreading Influence in Social Networks with Time Constraints July 4, 2014 Master thesis defense: Cathryn Supko July 2, 2014 Ph.D. student Jing Li wins award at the 11th IEEE International Conference on Services Computing July 2, 2014 Doctoral Student's Work Finds Innovative Application in Traditional Theatre Production in China Show more news Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn The Canadian Society for Civil Engineering - Concordia Student Chapter (CSCE:CSC) Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
133docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Student life Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student life Our department is a thriving place with committed students and many activities. Get involved today! Current students Student associations Current student FAQ Course schedules & sequences Get involved! List of student groups at Concordia Notices November 10, 2014 Notice to invigilators / Avis aux surveillants dexamen November 10, 2014 Shuttle bus GPS to be upgraded Join the conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
134docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Current student resources Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Current student resources Undergraduate Course sequences Course descriptions Course schedules (ENCS) Graduate Course descriptions Course schedules (ENCS) PhD critical stages & milestones Labs CSE labs All ENCS lab schedules Door codes Support & services Campus services New student success Financial matters Registration, requests & forms Student requests, readmission forms, transfer requests and more can all be found at SAS. Visit SAS now Helpful contacts Undergraduate Program Assistant Vicki Tow S-EV 3.150, ext. 3042 Graduate Program Advisor Edwina Bowen S-EV 3.152, ext. 3043 Diploma Program Assistant Edwina Bowen S-EV 3.150, ext. 3042 Related topics TA evaluation Teaching labs Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
135docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > About the department > Job opportunities Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Job opportunities Research, faculty and teaching positions Strategic Hire in Interaction Design, Theory and Practice Strategic Hire - Sustainable Infrastructure for Communities in Cold Climates Mechanical & Industrial Engineering - Assistant or Associate Professor Strategic Hire - Computer Games and Virtual Worlds Part-time teaching positions Please visit  Human Resources  for further information on part-time positions available for the upcoming Fall and Winter 2014-2015 semesters. TA positions Please make sure you are a member of the "cse-grad" email list to receive information and frequent updates about TA positions, COPTTA, and H&S deadlines and registration. To subscribe or unsubscribe, visit:  https://mail.encs.concordia.ca:444/mailman/listinfo/cse-grad Or, via email, send a message with subject or body 'help' to:  cse-grad-request@encs.concordia.ca You can reach the person managing the list at:  cse-grad-owner@encs.concordia.ca Applications Application for Fall 2014 TA and Marker positions is  now closed . Application for Fall 2014 TA and Marker positions is now closed. Information about Winter 2015 TA application will be announced during November 2014. Graduate students from Concordia's Computer Science and Software Engineering Department are invited to apply for our Teaching Assistant positions. You must be registered as a full-time or part-time student at Concordia during the semester for which you are applying for TA positions. Requirements for TA applicants All TA applicants must attend the Health & Safety workshop. If you have already done the workshop in a previous semester, you  do not  need to attend it again. In addition, all TA applicants are required to complete the COPTTA (Concordia Oral Proficiency Test for Teaching Assistants) English test. If you have already passed the test before, you  do not  need to re-take it. Info about both COPTTA and Health & Safety registration will be sent to the "cse-grad" email list in October. Please make sure you are already subscribed to this email list.  See how above . Only students who completed their Cegep or high-school here in Quebec in English or any other English institute in Canada are exempt from taking the COPTTA test. Please note that all applicants for tutor, lab demonstrator and programmers-on-duty positions (not marker) require completion of the TA Orientation/Health & Safety and COPTTA. The following are the only categories of students exempt from taking the COPTTA test: Marker applicants Students who have already passed COPTTA with a  score of 4 or higher Students who have completed at least 4 years of education in English in a Canadian school prior to starting their Bachelor's degree (i.e English high-school or cegep). The candidate must supply proof. Note that students who have studied in an  English school outside of Canada will still need to pass the COPTTA test . For any questions, please  email us . University staff opportunities FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & COMPUTER SCIENCEdocContentEnd
136docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > About the department > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time faculty Emeritus professors Part-time faculty Acemian, Nancy Bergler, Sabine Bui, Tien  D. Butler, Gregory Chvtal, Vclav  (Vaaek) Constantinides, Constantinos Desai, Bipin  C. Doedel, Eusebius  J. Eavis, Todd Fancott, Terry Fevens, Thomas  G. Goswami, Dhrubajyoti Grahne, Gsta Grogono, Peter Haarslev, Volker Hanna, Aiman Harutyunyan, Hovhannes Jaumard, Brigitte Jayakumar, Rajagopalan Klasa, Stan Kosseim, Leila Krzyzak, Adam Mudur, Sudhir Narayanan, Lata Ormandjieva, Olga Paquet, Joey Popa, Tiberiu Probst, David  K. Rigby, Peter Rilling, Juergen Shihab, Emad Shiri, Nematollaah Suen, Ching  Yee Tsantalis, Nikolaos Witte, Ren Yan, Yuhong Vangalur Alagar J. William Atwood David Ford Clement Lam Hon Fung Li Graham Martin John McKay Jaroslav Opatrny Thiruvengadam Radhakrishnan 2014 Last name First name Email Bergeron Nicolas nicolasbergeron@gmail.com Davis Donald Peter don@ece.concordia.ca El Gayar Neamat elgayar.neamat@gmail.com Ghaderpanah Seyed Sadegh sadegh@encs.concordia.ca Houari Nora nhouari@ucalgary.ca Jababo Khaled jababo@cs.concordia.ca jababo@yahoo.com Jannatpour Seyed Ali alij@encs.concordia.ca Joshi Suraj suraj.joshi@concordia.ca Kamthan Pankaj kamthan@cs.concordia.ca Kapadia Rohan Farrokh rohanfkapadia@gmail.com Kiaei Seyed Mohammad s_kiaei@ece.concordia.ca mkiaei@gmail.com Kratochvil Vaclav Mithun Shamima s_mithun@encs.concordia.ca Mokhov Serguei A serguei.mokhov@concordia.ca mokhov@encs.concordia.ca Obuchowicz Tadeusz ted@ece.concordia.ca Pitula Kristina Anna pitul_87@encs.concordia.ca Ranj Bar Amin a_ranj@encs.concordia.ca Santana Carlos-Luis santana@cs.concordia.ca Sinnig Daniel d_sinnig@encs.concordia.ca Sivagnanam Sutharsan suthar@gmail.com Soujeri Ebrahim esoujeri@encs.concordia.ca ebrahim@soujeri.org Taleb Mohamed mtaleb@encs.concordia.ca Thiel Stuart sthiel@cs.concordia.ca Titus Kerly titus@encs.concordia.ca Winikoff Steven M. smw@alcor.concordia.ca Zahirazami Shauheen shauheen@gmail.com Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
137docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > About the department > Administration & staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Administration & staff This team provides support to faculty members, faculty administrative committees, and assists students within the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering. Name Title Responsible for Office Phone Adugna, Hirut Office Assistant Receiving and redirecting visitors and students in person and on the phone; Coordinating departmental events S-EV 3.139 848-2424 ext: 3000 Bowen, Edwina Program Assistant, Diploma Providing initial assessment on all applications for the graduate programs. Processing graduate fellowships and awards S-EV 3.150 848-2424 ext: 3042 Joulani, Massy Department Administrator Managing the departments day to day operations and funds; Implement policies and procedures; Supervise administrative staff EV003.143 848-2424 ext: 7826 Monkiewicz, Halina Advisor, Graduate Programs Providing initial assessment on all M.Eng., M.A.Sc and PhD. applications. Advising graduate students on their academic progress and degree audit. S-EV 3.152 848-2424 ext: 3043 Tow, Vicki Program Assistant, Undergraduate Advising current student on their curriculum. Providing potential students with program information. EV003.144 848-2424 ext: 3053 Tzanetakos, Mary Assistant to the Chair Providing administrative support to the department Chair. Coordinating academic workload with the unit. Ensure critical CUPFA and CUFA deadlines are met. EV003.161 848-2424 ext: 3001 Yoganathan, Nimalan Coordinator, Laboratory Coordinating and organizing labs related to courses within the department. Recruiting and training tutors and markers. Managing department website S-EV 3.160 848-2424 ext: 3034 Related links Department location and main contact info Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
138docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Facilities & services Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Facilities & services The department is located in the modern and state of the art  Engineering, Computer Science and Visual Arts Integrated Complex  at the heart of downtown Montreal. Our research facility is comprised of 44 computing laboratories used by our various  research groups ; the laboratories contain regularly updated computer systems, which provide a complete setting for our current and potential students as well as visitors to conduct research in a wide range of research fields. Teaching facilities Computing facilities for teaching in the department of Computer Science and Software Engineering are provided by the centralized IT services of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, namely Academic and Information Technology Services (AITS). Over  1600 PCs are integrated in a gigabit Network, in addition to a 16 terabyte  NAS file server, numerous "Services" and "Application" servers,  and a modern HPC Cluster with 464 compute cores and 128 visualization cores . For undergraduate teaching, the facilities are located in the Hall Building where our department uses over 21 different computer labs with a total capacity of  484 seats/PCs and over 10 project rooms  with 17 seats/PCs to experiment with security, software installation and evaluation, and implementation of device-drivers. For graduate teaching, there are about  300 desktops available in 26 computer labs  and 4 project rooms in the EV building. All systems are dual boot Linux/Windows(XP), with general Microsoft tools provided by the current Campus agreement and other special engineering applications (AutoCAD, Matlab, Rational Rose, etc) necessary to satisfy the teaching mission. The software is updated every term and the systems are monitored closely. Research facilities The department also has over  15 research laboratories with specialized hardware and software  to support research in different subdisciplines such as software engineering, mathematical computing, mobile computing, networks, image processing, computer vision, graphics, visualization, human computer interaction, gaming, artificial intelligence, databases, data mining etc. All the equipment is upgraded regularly; computers are usually less than 3 years old and are never more than 5 years old.  Learn more about research groups . Related links Full list of computer labs & project rooms Department labs supporting CSSE courses Related resources Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science facilities and services Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
139docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li Posted on November 27, 2014 | By: Jing Li Speaker: Jing Li Supervisor: Dr. Y. Yan Examining Committee: Drs. C. Constantinides, T. Eavis, A. Hamou-Lhadj Title: Full Solution Indexing for Top-K Web Service Composition Date: Thursday, November 27, 2014 Time: 11:40 Place: EV 3.309 Abstract More and more attention has been putting on web services with the technological innovation of computer, communication and network. With the advent of cloud computing, a significant number of web services are available on the Internet. An attractive advantage of service composition is: it fulfills complex tasks by combining different existing web services together. Unfortunately, optimizing service compositions is still a challenging area need to be addressed. The objective of this research project is to study QoS-aware service composition problem and solve it with a database. We propose a novel relational-database approach for the QoS-aware service composition problem. We generate possible service combinations beforehand and store them in a relational database. When a user request comes, our system composes SQL queries to search in the database and return K best QoS solutions. We test the performance of the proposed system with a web service challenge data set, it demonstrates that this system can always find top-K valid solutions to satisfy users non-functional requirements. Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
140docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi Posted on November 27, 2014 Speaker: Jehan Janbi Supervisor: Dr. C. Y. Suen Supervisory Committee: Drs. N. Dumont, P. Grogono, T. Kasvand Title: Arabic Fonts Similarity Analysis Based on Visual Characteristics Date: Thursday, November 27, 2014 Time: 10:15 Place: EV 3.309 ABSTRACT In desktop publishing design, a font is an essential component of each design. Font file contains several information that facilitates font manipulating such as font name, designer or date of issue. For design choices, the visual properties of a font are more meaningful than file properties and information. Therefore, in Latin fonts, to provide an option to deal with font based on its visual properties, PANOSE number is added to its information. It composed of 10 digits where each digit represents a fonts visual characteristics. To extend this system to cover Arabic fonts, similarity analysis for Naskh style fonts was conducted. The analysis has been conducted within two levels on 112 fonts, using 16 glyphs that contain all strokes that used to compose all Arabic characters. The first analysis was over fonts level to cluster them into groups in such a way that fonts in each group are similar to each other. While the second analysis has been done on a glyph level to determine which glyphs have more information about font design. The similarity matrixes for both analyses had been calculated by using font matching tools that support Unicode fonts to include Arabic characters Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
141docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Home > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak Posted on November 24, 2014 Speaker : Puspal Bhabak Supervisor : Dr. H. Harutyunyan Examining Committee : Drs. N. Hardy, L. Narayanan, J. Opatrny, P, Kropf, N. Bhuiyan (Chair) Title : Approximation Algorithms for Broadcasting in Simple Graphs with Intersecting Cycles Date : Monday, November 24, 2014 Time : 10:00 a.m. Place : EV 1.162 ABSTRACT Broadcasting is an information dissemination problem in a connected network in which one node, called the originator, must distribute a message to all other nodes by placing a series of calls along the communication lines of the network. Every time the informed nodes aid the originator in distributing the message. Finding the minimum broadcast time of any vertex in an arbitrary graph is NP-complete. The problem remains NP-Complete even for planar graphs of degree 3 and for a graph whose vertex set can be partitioned into a clique and an independent set. The best theoretical upper bound gives logarithmic approximation. It has been shown that the broadcast time cannot be approximated within a factor of 3  [. The polynomial time solvability is shown only for tree-like graphs; trees, unicyclic graphs, tree of cycles, necklace graphs and some graphs where the underlying graph is a clique; such as fully connected trees and tree of cliques. In this thesis we study the broadcast problem in different classes of graphs where cycles intersect in at least one vertex. First we consider broadcasting in a simple graph where several cycles have common paths and two intersecting vertices, called a k-path graph. We present a constant approximation algorithm to find the broadcast time of an arbitrary k-path graph. We also study the broadcast problem in a simple cactus graph called k-cycle graph where several cycles of arbitrary lengths are connected by a central vertex on one end. We design a constant approximation algorithm to find the broadcast time of an arbitrary k-cycle graph. Next we study the broadcast problem in a hypercube of trees for which we present a 2-approximation algorithm for any originator. We provide a linear algorithm to find the broadcast time in hypercube of trees with one tree. We extend the result for any arbitrary graph whose nodes contain trees and design a linear time constant approximation algorithm. Related Topics engineering computing Find an Expert Search for an expert to comment on any topic Enter a phrase or keyword Back to top About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Concordia University 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
142docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Programs Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Programs What is the difference between the software engineering & computer science fields? What makes our undergrad & grad programs in both fields unique? What kind of careers can you can expect in each?  Learn more . Undergraduate programs We offer two undergraduate degrees: a  Bachelor of Engineering in Software Engineering  and a  Bachelor of Computer Science . Both programs are available in the  Co-op format ; the Computer Science program may also lead to an  Honours  program. See programs Graduate programs Four  Masters Degree programs  are available in Computer Science and in Software Engineering, as well as a  graduate diploma program  and  dynamic doctoral program  in Computer Science. See programs On the job experience Both the BCompSci and BEng degrees are available as  co-op programs , which alternate work and study terms. Learn about Co-op Degrees Undergraduate Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) in Software Engineering Bachelor of Computer Science (BCompSci) Graduate PhD in  Computer Science Master in  Computer Science Master in  Applied Computer Science Master in Engineering  (Software Engineering) Master in Applied Science  (Software Engineering) Graduate Diploma in  Computer Science Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
143docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research > Research groups Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research groups 3D-Graphics The primary focus of research in this lab is the development of new, efficient and scalable computational techniques for 3D graphics and more generally for computing with visuals.  More about 3D Graphics . Bioinformatics Research in this area involves the design, evaluation, and implementation of algorithms, databases and systems in bioinformatics, including ontologies and the semantic web, user interfaces for bioinformatics tools and systems.  More about Bioinformatics . Computational Linguistics at Concordia The lab is interested in all aspects of Natural Language Processing: from theoretical research of linguistic phenomena such as coreference to the development of specific applications such as automatic summarizers or question-answering systems.  More about CLaC . Database Research Group The current areas of focus in database research are on modeling, languages, query processing and optimization and include, in random order, Semi-structured Data and XML, Data Warehousing, OLAP, and Data Mining, Logic Programming and Deductive Databases, Semantic Web, Digital Libraries, and much more.  More about the Database Research Group . Dependable Software Research Group The DSRG engages in theoretical and applied research in the areas of Software Engineering and Formal Methods - in particular, Software Requirements, Model Driven Design (MDD) and Module/Behavioral Interface Specification.  More about the DSRG . Human-Centered Software Engineering This multidisciplinary area of research involves researchers from computer science, psychology, communication and art. Major investigations include agent technology, cognitive and modeling; user interfaces design, user-centered development of interactive systems; user-oriented tests, usability evaluation; software and information visualization techniques.  More about HCSE research . Large Scale Optimization Systems The Large Scale Optimization Systems Laboratory focuses on optimization techniques aiming at solving large scale systems with operations research techniques (e.g., metaheuristics and decomposition techniques) arising in different engineering areas such as communication networks (e.g., network design, network provisioning, optical grid dimensioning) and industrial engineering (staff scheduling, train scheduling, reasoning under uncertainty in expert systems, clustering or data mining, optimization of multi-agent systems).  More about Large Scale Optimization Systems . Mathematical Computing and Visualization Research in this area includes algebraic and combinatorial computing, coding theory, computational algebra and computational number theory, combinatorial optimization, computational geometry, computational group theory, computer graphics, cryptography, numerical and nonlinear analysis, mathematical modeling, scientific and information visualization, visual computing, virtual environments.  More about Mathematical Computing and Visualization . Networks A wide range of topics are researched by a number of professors in this area. One set of topics is concerned with specification, validation and evaluation of communications protocols within computer networks. Other topics include routing algorithms for 3D ad-hoc networks, effect of network structure on network communications for parallel and distributed computing, error-correcting codes, cryptography and diagnosis of computer networks, mobile computing, WDM networks, wavelength assignment in optical networks and communication algorithms in networks. The principal researchers in this field are listed below. If you wish to read more about their research please visit their home pages. J.W. Atwood T. Fevens H. Harutyunyan B. Jaumard L. Narayanan J. Opatrny Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems This broad area of research has several subgroups of people working as research teams in areas such as: algorithms for parallel computing, wireless and distributed computing, protocols for secure multicasting and QoS signaling, network resiliency, distributed agent based architectures for fault tolerance and performance enhancement, pattern based parallel programming, predicate detection and slicing of distributed programs, object oriented parallel programming systems. The principal researchers in this field are listed below. If you wish to read more about their research please visit their home pages. D. Goswami R. Jayakumar H. F. Li D. K.Probst T. Radhakrishnan Software Engineering Both formal, empirical and practical software engineering research is currently going on in the following areas: requirements engineering, analysis, formal methods; object-oriented reusable software, software design patterns and architectures; software maintenance, comprehension and visualization; software measurement; software usability engineering, human factors in software development, developer-centric CASE tools, empirical studies; specification, verification and testing; reactive systems.The principal researchers in this field are listed below. If you wish to read more about their research please visit their home pages. V. Alagar P. Chalin P. Grogono O. Ormandjieva J. Paquet J. Rilling Software Maintenance and Evolution Research Group The group investigates problems with the object-oriented and aspect-oriented programs. Research groups Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics at Concordia (CLAC) Database Research Group (DBRG) Dependable Software Research Group (DSRG) Human Centred Software Engineering Computational Mathematics and Visualization Large Scale Optimization Systems Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems Software Engineering Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
144docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research > Industry sponsors Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Industry sponsors Canadian Pacific Railways Hoa Le Thai, a PhD student of Dr. Brigitte Jaumard, is the recent recipient of a BMP Industrial Innovation Scholarship. This scholarship will go towards funding Hoa's current Train Rescheduling research project for  Canadian Pacific Railways . The BMP Industrial Innovation Scholarships (IIS) Program, offered jointly by NSERC and the Fonds qubcois de la recherche sur la nature et les technologies (FQRNT),offers financial assistance to students enrolled in a Masters or Doctoral program and interested in undertaking research in natural sciences and engineering, through a university-business partnership. See further details about the BMP scholarship program . Vigilant Global In 2009, Montreal-based financial company,  Vigilant Global , announced their $20,000 donation in support of international CSE graduate scholarships. Co-founder Arvind Ramanathan, BComm 01, reported that about 25 percent of the company's employees are Concordia computer science graduates. "Financial markets are looking for people like you," Ramanathan said to the 25 computer science students on hand. Read further details about Vigilant Global's contribution to Concordia's CSE department . More partners Infosys Research in Motion Upclick Research Research groups Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics at Concordia (CLAC) Database Research Group (DBRG) Dependable Software Research Group (DSRG) Human Centred Software Engineering Computational Mathematics and Visualization Large Scale Optimization Systems Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems Software Engineering Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
145docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research > Research centre (CENPARMI) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research centre (CENPARMI) Introduction Pattern recognition and machine intelligence (PARMI) has been a very active field in the past 20 years, particularly in the application area. PARMI techniques have been used to recognize characters, time-varying signals, voice, satellite pictures, objects, fingerprints, and weather patterns, in many scientific, business, and military applications. In 1988, Concordia University established the Centre for Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence (CENPARMI) on the recommendation of its Senate and with the approval of its Board of Governors. CENPARMI was officially established as an international research centre in September 1988. The Centre is an administrative entity in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science which is becoming increasingly multi-disciplinary. The function "research, development and information exchange" has shown a growing and marked success that is reflected by the publication of a large number of books and papers, the training provided to many visitors and students, the importance of its research activities, its linkage with industry through collaborations and research contracts, as well as by funding from different agencies at both levels of governments. Members of this centre have been very active in the field of PARMI for 20 years. Started from a small nucleus of 2-3 people working in the areas of optical character recognition (OCR), document analysis and text processing, CENPARMI now has a strong group of professors from the Department of Computer Science of Concordia University, inter-university members from Ecole Polytechnique de Montreal and Ecole de Technologie Superieure, visitors from other universities, research staff and graduate students, with expertise in pattern recognition and image processing, parallel processing, computational linguistics, knowledge representation, machine intelligence and expert systems. Mission & objectives In the mid 1980's, this research group began to plan for the establishment of a research centre in the university, with the following mission and objectives in mind: Mission To promote advanced research and train highly-qualified personnel in pattern recognition and machine intelligence, and to strengthen interaction between universities and industries. Objectives To foster closer collaborations among active researchers in the area of PARMI at Concordia and other universities in Quebec. To disseminate knowledge acquired and to transfer technology to the industry for the economic and social well-being of Quebec and Canada. To establish firmly our national centre of excellence in PARMI and to pursue challenging problems which might benefit Quebec economically and socially, the following strategies have been adopted: To identify and explore projects which are sufficiently challenging and suitable for team research in the Centre in collaboration with the industry. To engage in projects of national strategic importance which capitalize on the strengths and interests of members of the Centre. To obtain funding from government agencies, industry and other organizations. To organize workshops, conferences, short courses and tutorials. To establish national and international exchange programs with other research institutions. To invite distinguished speakers and to organize seminars, to exchange research data, technical reports, publications, and experience. To increase the level of joint supervision of graduate students. The purpose of CENPARMI is to bring together people who have expertise and common interests, and to evolve so that the Centre can grow and maintain its stature as one of the world's leading centres in PARMI. Program description In 1972, faculty members of the Department of Computer Science at Concordia University had already started to conduct research in the field of PARMI. Under the directorship of Dr. C.Y. Suen, a world authority in optical character recognition, CENPARMI has attracted prominent researchers from other institutions. Currently, members of this centre are conducting advanced research and development on a variety of multi-disciplinary projects in the following areas: Handwriting recognition and signature verification Image analysis and document processing Combination of different types of features and classification techniques Application of multiple expert systems and neural networks Natural language processing Technological exchanges with industry constitute one of the principal components of CENPARMI. The wide scope of our research, coupled with the talents and expertise of our members and staff, provide a stimulating environment for us to accept new challenges in theoretical and experimental computer science and engineering. Researchers have the opportunity of conducting their work in a team to reach the common goals of the above proposed projects. They meet regularly in order to plan and discuss the progress and integration of research projects, supervise our graduate students either independently or jointly with other members, interact with our visiting scientists from other universities and industries, network with other researchers in the field, and conduct seminars within the team or in the institutes of our industrial collaborators like IBM at Yorktown Heights, IBM at San Jose, Philips, Bell Quebec and Matrox in the Montreal region, the Electrotechnical Laboratory and NTT (Nippon Telephone and Telegraph) of Japan, and in other institutions. Visit the  CENPARMI website  for more information. Research Research groups Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics at Concordia (CLAC) Database Research Group (DBRG) Dependable Software Research Group (DSRG) Human Centred Software Engineering Computational Mathematics and Visualization Large Scale Optimization Systems Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems Software Engineering Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Learn more Visit the CENPARMI website Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
146docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research > Grants & funding Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Grants & funding Undergraduate student funding Canadian Engineering Memorial Foundation Google Canada Anita Borg Memorial Scholarship Ho-Lin Mark Undergraduate Bursary Kevin O'Mara Memorial Bursary GE Foundation, Scholar-Leaders program in Canada See all Concordia undergraduate awards Undergraduate research Learn about Concordia research opportunities for undergraduate students. Graduate student funding Canadian Engineering Memorial Foundation Masters' scholarships Canadian Engineering Memorial Foundation Doctoral scholarships Vigilant Global Scholarship in Computer Science School of Graduate Studies See all Concordia graduate awards Research Research groups Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics at Concordia (CLAC) Database Research Group (DBRG) Dependable Software Research Group (DSRG) Human Centred Software Engineering Computational Mathematics and Visualization Large Scale Optimization Systems Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems Software Engineering Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
147docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Research > Visiting researchers Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Visiting researchers Each year the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering welcomes visiting scientists and visiting post-doctoral fellows from around the world whose research makes an innovative contribution to our exiting research areas. The program provides visitors access to the associated research laboratories and university library. Visiting scientists and visiting post-doctoral fellows must be sponsored by a faculty member who will act as the research project supervisor. It is the responsibility of the potential visitor to contact appropriate faculty member and arrange for the sponsorship. Please refer to our  research groups  section to get more information about our current research activity. Research Research groups Bioinformatics Computational Linguistics at Concordia (CLAC) Database Research Group (DBRG) Dependable Software Research Group (DSRG) Human Centred Software Engineering Computational Mathematics and Visualization Large Scale Optimization Systems Parallel and Distributed Computer Systems Software Engineering Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Related content Research groups Affiliate professors Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
148docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > News & events Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn News More latest news Convocation preview: 5 great grads, in numbers October 15, 2014 Thiruvengadam Radhakrishnan, a respected and admired leader October 15, 2014 The new student-developed app that could change the way you see your city May 28, 2014 Faculty Accolades, March 2014 March 14, 2014 Teaching Excellence and Staff Recognition Awards December 2, 2013 Summer 2013 Accolades August 21, 2013 ENCS Notices November 24, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 21, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 26, 2014 Nov. 28, 2014: Invited Speaker: Fair Scheduling with Multiple Resources for Cloud Computing October 31, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak November 26, 2014 Nov. 20, 2014: Invited Speaker: Planning and Developing Technology for Public Transit November 21, 2014 Master Thesis Defense - November 27, 2014: Modeling Cost of Quality in the Construction Industry More notices Lecture series Theses Defenses CSE Notices November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar Jehan Janbi November 27, 2014 Doctoral Seminar: Jing Li November 24, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Puspal Bhabak October 29, 2014 Doctoral Thesis Defense: Reem Alnanih Concordia-wide events Today Nov. 26 Get the flu shot Today Nov. 26 Student Banking 101 Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
149docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering Home About the department Faculty members Administration & staff Job opportunities Programs Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Co-op programs Research Research groups Research centre (CENPARMI) Industry sponsors Grants & funding Visiting researchers Facilities & services Student life Current student resources Student associations Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering > Student life > Student associations Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Student associations Engineering and Computer Science Association (ECA) A student-run organization representing undergraduates in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. Go to the  ECA website . Other ENCS Student societies associated with the ECA include: Association for Computing Machinery Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society, Concordia University Student Chapter Software Engineering and Computer Science Society Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Association (ECSGA) A student-run organization representing undergraduates in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. Go to the  ECSGA website . Other student associations The Concordia Student Union (CSU) The CSU represents all undergraduate students at Concordia. All undergraduate students pay CSU fees in order to support this student union. The CSU provides many services and programs, such as: Advocacy services; Free Handbook/Agenda; Reggies Student bar; Class Scheduling software; Health and Dental Insurance; Housing & Job bank; Co-op Used Bookstore. Visit the  CSU website  for more information. The Graduate Students Association (GSA) Graduate students who pay Graduate Student Association fees are members of this association. There is a lounge area, study space, computers, laser photocopier, television, printing services and financial support for conferences and special Initiated Projects. The GSA also organizes social events. Visit the  GSA website  for more information. Concordia International Students Association Run by and for international students as well as students with a strong interest in cultural diversity, helping international students adjust to life in Montreal, Canada and at Concordia. Visit the  CISA website Student clubs The Dean of Students Office is the principal resource for the interpretation and regulation of policies and procedures as these apply to the non-academic aspects of student life. All student groups and associations must register each academic year (starting June 1st) in order to have access to university services, such as booking privileges.  See a list of all clubs  or  find out how to start your own . Canadian University Software Engineering Conference Students who are passionate about Software Engineering, from across Canada and diverse concentrations, gather under one roof for three full days to learn from the worlds most famous and sought after software engineering speakers, researchers and professionals. Started by a small group of passionate software engineering students from Concordia University.  Visit the CUSEC website . Join the Conversation Concordia Engineering Follow @ENCSConcordia ENCS alumni chapter group on LinkedIn Back to top About CSSE Programs Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact us Concordia University 514-848-2424 Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: Engineering & Visual Arts Building Room EV 3.139 See building map Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
150docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > Courses > Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Honours Research Project ENGR 412      Honours Research Project  (3 credits) Prerequisite: ENCS 282; minimum 75 credits in the BEng program with a CGPA of 3.00 or better; permission of the Department. Students work on a research project in their area of concentration, selected in consultation with and conducted under the supervision of a faculty member of the Department. The students work must culminate in a final report, as well as an oral presentation. Students planning to register for this course should consult with the Department prior to term of planned registration. Intended for students with potential interest in graduate programs. NOTE: Must be approved by the Department prior to registration. See undergraduate calendar Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Additional Registration Information University Writing Test Requirement Student Academic Services (SAS) Undergraduate Class Schedule ENCS Course list Registration guide Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
151docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > Courses > Technical Report (ENGR 411) Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Technical Report ENGR 411  is a one-credit project course set up to meet the special needs of certain students lacking one credit or less for graduation. Registration into this course requires the written permission from Students Academic Services (SAS) of the ENCS Faculty. Registration Process To apply for this course, please fill out the students section of the  Topic Approval-ENGR 411 . Please have your department's Undergraduate Program Director approve your topic and submit the original form to your departments Undergraduate Program Assistant. Please note that for Mechanical Engineering students, your topic should be related to your chosen option. For Industrial Engineering students, your topic should be an Industrial Engineering topic. Once everything has been approved you will receive a copy of the form for your records. This should also be bound with your final report. If you are denied registration for any reason, you will be notified. It is your responsibility to clearly provide your correct email address in order for us to keep in contact with you throughout the semester. General Requirements of the ENGR-411 Project Course The ENGR 411 report is not a supervised project however if you need assistance, feel free to contact any of our professors for help. The report should be approximately 20 pages, double spaced, typed using 12 point font with a cover page containing your Name, ID, Department, year and the term. The report will not be accepted, unless you include a signed copy of the  Confirmation of Originality Report  to ensure there is no plagiarism. The deadline for submission of the report is the last day of classes in the term you have registered for ENGR-411 . Failure to submit by the deadline can delay the grading and might result in the student not graduating in the intended term. The report will be graded by an assigned professor, usually based on your topic, for both its technical content and the format of report presentation. Therefore, pay attention to the style and format. Remember what you have learned in ENCS 282. Consult the guidelines from the Concordia Form and Style Guide. Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Additional Registration Information University Writing Test Requirement Student Academic Services (SAS) Undergraduate Class Schedule ENCS Course list Registration guide Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
152docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > Research Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Research Faculty Research Profiles Deborah Dysart-Gale s research brings together her interests in intercultural communication, health communication and community development. She works primarily to improve health and social work communication in developing communities. Her recent interest is in applying health communication scholarship to ICT projects for social development. Govind Gopakumar s major research interest is related to infrastructures of cities such as technological networks of information, water supply, sewers, roads, bridges, and energy. He is particularly interested in investigating the dynamics of the interaction of global and urban/regional factors on processes of change in urban infrastructures in developing countries. His doctoral degree is in Science and Technology Studies from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Matthew Harsh  is interested in how new and emerging technologies can improve livelihoods in sub-Saharan Africa. An engineer and social scientist, he uses tools from sociology, public policy and economics to understand the forces that drive innovation and technological development, and that determine who benefits from technologies. He works mainly in Kenya and South Africa and has focused on new biotechnologies for agriculture (genetically-modified crops), nanotechnology, and computer science and information technologies. Ketra Schmitt  is interested in science, technology and public policy issues that have important risk-benefit tradeoffs. She develops methods and builds systems models to characterize and analyze risks and benefits as well as the associated uncertainty. Examples of her research include characterizing the economic impacts associated with terrorism and natural disasters and combining information from disparate health studies for environmental contaminants. Learn more about the faculty Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
153docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > About the Centre Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the Centre Mission Statement The Centre for Engineering in Society is part of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, and shares its commitment to educating engineers and computer scientists who exhibit the highest standards of professionalism and social responsibility in their practice. The Centres distinct contribution within the Faculty is teaching and research in technology from humanistic, social scientific, and interdisciplinary perspectives, broadening the scope of graduate and undergraduate education, and preparing students to take their place as citizens, researchers, innovators, and stewards of the public good. Vision Statement The Centre for Engineering in Society (CES) within the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science is committed to providing engineers with the skills to appreciate technology as an object of study, reflection and analysis within public life. The primary objective of CES is to develop undergraduate and graduate students communication skills, their moral imaginations, and understanding of the social foundations and impacts of technology.  In pursuit of this objective, CES teaches courses from humanistic and social scientific traditions in order to prepare students for professional practice and to broaden the scope of their education as both citizens and researchers.  In addition, CES takes an interdisciplinary approach to research in technology analysis, collaborating with faculty across the engineering disciplines on problems with significant policy and social dimensions, and pursues research projects with emphases on rhetoric, philosophy of science, economics, risk analysis, cultural studies of technology, global engineering and engineering public policy.  The goal of CES is to produce and reflect upon the engineer as citizen, entrepreneur, and rhetorician.  As citizens, engineers are part of a larger public, and thus their work implicates issues in the crafting of public policy, the development of nascent democracies, and the health and well being of communities. As entrepreneurs, engineers develop new ideas, propose and pursue innovation, plan and manage large-scale projects, and promote sustainable economic development. As rhetoricians, engineers employ communicative practices to shape public perceptions, to negotiate knowledge-claims, to explain the risks associated with technological development, and to be ethically accountable to society. Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
154docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > Courses Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Courses Undergraduate Our undergraduate courses prepare students to think and communicate as leaders in their professional practice. ENCS 272 Composition and Argumentation for Engineers (3 credits) This course develops skills in composition, argumentation and persuasive professional writing, especially for those students whose first language is not English. Note: Students who pass ENCS 272 with a C- or higher will fulfill the Faculty Writing Skills requirement, and will be eligible to enroll in ENCS 282. ENCS 282 Technical Writing and Communication (3 credits) This course introduces essential types of professional engineering communicationtechnical reports, abstracts, proposals, and scientific papers. It covers research and referencing methods for engineers and computer scientists. Students complete an oral presentation and a major report.  The course is open to students who have passed the Engineering Writing Test (EWT) or completed ENCS 272 with a satisfactory grade. ENGR 201 Professional Practice and Responsibility (1.5 credits) This course familiarizes students with the Professional Code and the Engineers Act, and Quebec and Canadian legislation for engineering projects. It covers health and safety issues such as safe work practices, general laboratory safety. It also provides a thorough discussion of professional engineering ethics. ENGR 392 Impact of Technology on Society (3 credits) This course explores the social history of technology, and sensitizes students to the social and environmental problems cause by unexpected effects of technology. Students examine the diffusion of innovation and public perception of engineering and engineering solutions. ENCS 393 Social and Ethical Dimensions of Information and Communication Technologies (3 credits) This course examines crucial questions in our information society: ethics, surveillance and privacy, economic globalization, intellectual property, the digital divide, computer-based profiling and hacking, electronic democracy, information productivity and the work/life balance. ENCS 411 Technical Report (3 credits) This is a one-credit project course set up to meet the special needs of certain students lacking one credit or less for graduation. Registration into this course requires the written permission from Students Academic Services (SAS) of the ENCS Faculty.  Find out more . ENCS 412 Honours Research Project (3 credits) Students work on a research project in their area of concentration, selected in consultation with and conducted under the supervision of a faculty member of the Department. The students work must culminate in a final report, as well as an oral presentation.  Find out more . ENCS 483 Innovation and Critical Thinking in Science and Technology (3 credits) This course examines thinking, arguing, and creativity in science and technology. It explores complex problems using theories from communication, business and psychology. Case studies of successful and failed innovations are presented. We examine the roles of experts and researchers in the diffusion of ideas, and the impact of diffusion on economics, media and society. For further information, see Section 71.60 of the Undergraduate Calendar. Graduate Our graduate courses help advanced students develop their professional and academic communication skills. ENCS 5721 Composition and Argumentation for Engineers (3 Credits) This course familiarizes graduate students with the conventions of academic writing. Topics include organization of  paragraphs and documents, abstracts, academic and professional writing styles, plagiarism and appropriate use of cited materials. ENCS 6041 Creativity, Innovation, and Critical Thinking (4 credits) This course examines thinking, arguing, and creativity from a theoretical and applied perspective. It explores complex problems using theories from communication, business and psychology. Students engage in a semester project that addresses an unmet need experienced by a specific group of users. ENCS 6721 Technical Writing and Research Methods for Engineers and Computer Scientists (3 Credits) In this course, students develop their written and spoken professional skills. The dual focus is on academic writing (e.g., research methods, organization and management of thesis and dissertation writing, creation of publishable articles) and professional communication in the industry (e.g., project proposals, executive summaries, technical reports). ENCS 6821 Development and Global Engineering (4 credits) This is an introductory course in international development and global engineering for graduate students. Topics  include evolution of development, globalization, development projects, planning and analysis, and participatory data gathering. For further information, see the  Graduate Calendar . Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Communication skills for all degree goals: Bachelor Technical writing, effective oral presentations MEng Writing for professional and client audiences; creating professional looking documents MSc Writing and research; designing your research question; organizing your thesis; literature reviews; avoiding plagiarism PhD Contributing to the discipline; utilizing library research; optimizing the writing process; writing research articles; responding to criticism Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
155docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > About the Centre > Faculty members Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty members Full-time Faculty Professor Emeritus Nancy Acemian Senior Lecturer, Computer Science and Software Engineering Provost's Fellow for Digital & Blended Learning 514-848-2424, ext. 7830 S-EV 3153 nancy.acemian@concordia.ca Brandiff Caron Lecturer, Centre for Engineering in Society 514-848-2424, ext. 5130 S-EV 2249 brandiff.caron@concordia.ca Deborah Dysart-Gale Chair, Associate Professor, Centre for Engineering in Society 514-848-2424, ext. 5195 S-EV 2255 deborah.dysartgale@concordia.ca Ken Grimes Lecturer, Centre for Engineering in Society ken.grimes@concordia.ca Matthew Harsh Assistant Professor, Centre for Engineering in Society 514-848-2424, ext. 5982 S-EV 2247 matthew.harsh@concordia.ca Stuart James Macmillan Lecturer, Centre for Engineering in Society 514-848-2424, ext. 5447 S-EV 2253 stuart.macmillan@concordia.ca Ketra Schmitt Assistant Professor, Centre for Engineering in Society 514-848-2424, ext. 3843 S-GM 930-35 ketra.schmitt@concordia.ca Bernice Goldsmith Assistant Professor Emeritus, Centre for Engineering in Society Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
156docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > About the Centre > Staff Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Staff Name Title Location Phone Carol Williams Assistant to the Chair EV002.257 514-848-2424; ext. 5443 Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
157docContentStartStudy resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class cancellations Class schedules Important academic dates Libraries Campus services Campus services by topic Bookstore, Campus Stores Job opportunities Security Shuttle bus Student Service Centre (Birks) Get connected IT services Webmail What's new Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Quick links New site guide MyConcordia Cspace Webmail Libraries A-Z Maps Menu Concordia University Concordia Directories Search Concordia University Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science Home About the Faculty Dean&apos;s office Administrative units Faculty Council Industrial Advisory Council Staff directory Job opportunities Accreditation Academics Departments Undergraduate & graduate programs Research Research expertise Research centres Laboratories Research Chairs Research funding & resources Opportunities for students Facilities & services Lab schedules IT support (AITS) Student life Student Academic Services Student associations Alumni Concordia.ca > Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science > Centre for Engineering and Society > Individualized program Print Email Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Individualized program The focus of research in CES is interdisciplinary in nature. Applications will be considered for doctoral studies under the Individualized Program (INDI) of the School of Graduate Studies. Exceptional cases will be considered also for the research based Master's program under INDI. Interested students are encouraged to send their detailed CV along with a short research proposal directly to the CES professor whose interests are most closely related to the student's proposed research. CES faculty are involved in an INDI Research Current in Global Engineering: Engineers and information scientists shape and are shaped by the social world in which they practice, and that world is becoming smaller and more interconnected. This observation opens a variety of research questions in the newly emerging field of global engineering. The major emphases of work in Global Engineering are in leadership studies and social entrepreneurship.  These two foci guide should guide student research, which may be focused on one or more of the following areas: Global competency: Communication skills; cross-cultural communication; management. Social impacts of technology: Equity; effects of technology on social, political, and cultural practices; ethics and practices of technological development aid. Globalization of technology: Function of multinational and international firms, international business and engineering codes, legislation, and regulation. Technology entrepreneurship: dissemination of technological innovation, team work, idea generation, creativity processes. The INDI Global Engineering currently invites students to explore questions bearing on the relationship between society and technology, and to prepare students to engage in ethical engineering and entrepreneurship practices in the service of a global community Participating faculty members: Deborah Dysart-Gale Govind Gopakumar Matthew Harsh Ketra Schmitt Centre for Engineering and Society About the Centre Faculty members Staff Courses Technical Report (ENGR 411) Honours Research Project (ENGR 412) Research  Individualized program Registering for the Engineering Writing Test Register for the Engineering Writing Test online  (ENCS login required). Back to top About the Faculty Academics Research Facilities & services Student life News & events Contact Concordia University 514-848-2424 Civic address: 1515 Ste. Catherine St. West EV 002.139 Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Mailing address: 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West Montreal ,  Quebec ,  Canada H3G 1M8 Join the Conversation facebook twitter google youtube linkedin pinterest instagram flickr Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Provide feedback Feedback forms Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. I want to report a bad linkdocContentEnd
